Disapparate; the Death Eaters had cast their charms well. The cold was biting deeper and deeper into Harry's flesh. He  Ron and Hermione retreated down the side street  groping their way along the wall
trying not to make a sound. Then  around the corner  gliding noiselessly  came dementors  ten or more of them  visible because they were of a denser darkness than their surroundings  with their black cloaks
and their scabbed and rotting hands. Could they sense fear in the vicinity. Harry was sure of it: They seemed to be coming more quickly now  taking those dragging  rattling breaths he detested  tasting despair in the air  closing in  
He raised his wand: He could not  would not suffer the Dementor's Kiss  whatever happened afterward. It was of Ron and Hermione that he thought as he whispered  Expecto Patronum. 
The silver stag burst from his wand and charged: The Dementors scattered and there was a triumphant yell from somewhere out of sight  It's him  down there  down there  I saw his Patronus  it was a stag. 
The Dementors have retreated  the stars were popping out again and the footsteps of the Death Eaters were becoming louder; but before Harry in his panic could decide what to do  there was a grinding of bolts
nearby  a door opened on the left side of the narrow street  and a rough voice said:  Potter  in here  quick.  He obeyed without hesitation  the three of them hurried through the open doorway.
 Upstairs  keep the Cloak on  keep quiet.  muttered a tall figure  passing them on his way into the street and slammed the door behind him. Harry had had no idea where they were  but now he saw  by the stuttering light of a single candle 
the grubby  sawdust bar of the Hog's Head Inn. They ran behind the counter and through a second doorway  which led to a trickery wooden staircase  that they climbed as fast as they could. The stairs opened into
a sitting room with a durable carpet and a small fireplace  above which hung a single large oil painting of a blonde girl who gazed out at the room with a kind of a vacant sweetness.
Shouts reached from the streets below. Still wearing the Invisibility Cloak on  they hurried toward the grimy window and looked down. Their savior  whom Harry now recognized as the Hog's Head's barman  was the only person not wearing a hood.
 So what.  he was bellowing into one of the hooded faces.  So what. You send dementors down my street  I'll send a Patronus back at'em. I'm not having'em near me  I've told you that. I'm not having it. 
 That wasn't your Patronus   said a Death Eater.  That was a stag. It was Potter's.   Stag.  roared the barman  and he pulled out a wand.  Stag. You idiot   Expecto Patronum. 
Something huge and horned erupted from the wand. Head down  it charged toward the High Street  and out of sight.  That's not what I saw  said the Death Eater  though was less certainly
 Curfew's been broken  you heard the noise   one of his companions told the barman.  Someone was out on the streets against regulations      If I want to put my cat out  I will  and be damned to your curfew. 
 You set off the Caterwauling Charm.   What if I did. Going to cart me off to Azkaban. Kill me for sticking my nose out my own front door. Do it 
then  if you want to. But I hope for your sakes you haven't pressed your little Dark Marks  and summoned him. He's not going to like being called here  for me and my old cat  is he  now. 
 Don't worry about us.  said one of the Death Eaters   worry about yourself  breaking curfew.   And where will you lot traffic potions and poisons when my pub's closed down. What will happen to your little sidelines then.   Are you threatening   . 
 I keep my mouth shut  it's why you come here  isn't it.   I still say I saw a stag Patronus.  shouted the first Death Eater.  Stag.  roared the barman.  It's a goat  idiot. 
 All right  we made a mistake   said the second Death Eater.  Break curfew again and we won't be so lenient.  The Death Eaters strode back towards the High Street. Hermione moaned with relief  wove out from under the Cloak 
and sat down on a wobble legged chair. Harry drew the curtains then pulled the Cloak off himself and Ron. They could hear the barman down below  rebolting the door of the bar  then climbing the stairs.
Harry's attention was caught by something on the mantelpiece: a small  rectangular mirror  propped on top of it  right beneath the portrait of the girl. The barman entered the room.
 You bloody fools   he said gruffly  looking from one to the other of them.  What were you thinking  coming here.   Thank you   said Harry.  You can't thank you enough. You saved our lives. 
The barman grunted. Harry approached him looking up into the face: trying to see past the long  stringy  wire gray hair beard. He wore spectacles. Behind the dirty lenses  the eyes were a piercing  brilliant blue.  It's your eye I've been seeing in the mirror. 
There was a silence in the room. Harry and the barman looked at each other.  You sent Dobby.  The barman nodded and looked around for the elf.  Thought he'd be with you. Where've you left him.  He's dead   said Harry   Bellatrix Lestrange killed him. 
The barman face was impassive. After a few moments he said   I'm sorry to hear it  I liked that elf.  He turned away  lightning lamps with prods of his wand  not looking at any of them.  You're Aberforth   said Harry to the man's back.
He neither confirmed or denied it  but bent to light the fire.  How did you get this.  Harry asked  walking across to Sirius's mirror  the twin of the one he had broken nearly two years before.
 Bought it from Dung 'bout a year ago   said Aberforth.  Albus told me what it was. Been trying to keep an eye out for you.  Ron gasped.  The silver doe   he said excitedly   Was that you too. 
 What are you talking about.  asked Aberforth.  Someone sent a doe Patronus to us.   Brains like that  you could be a Death Eater  son. Haven't I just prove my Patronus is a goat. 
 Oh   said Ron   Yeah. well  I'm hungry.  he added defensively as his stomach gave an enormous rumble.  I got food   said Aberforth  and he sloped out of the room  reappearing moments later with a large
loaf of bread  some cheese  and a pewter jug of mead  which he set upon a small table in front of the fire. Ravenous  they ate and drank  and for a while there was sound of chewing.
 Right then   said Aberforth when the had eaten their fill and Harry and Ron sat slumped dozily in their chairs.  We need to think of the best way to get you out of here. Can't be done by night  you heard what
happens if anyone moves outdoors during darkness: Caterwauling Charm's set off  they'll be onto you like bowtruckles on doxy eggs. I don't reckon I'll be able to pass of a stag as a goat a second time. Wait for daybreak
when curfew lifts  then you can put your Cloak back on and set out on foot. Get right out of Hogsmeade  up into the mountains  and you'll be able to Disapparate there. Might see Hagrid. He's been hiding in a cave up there with
Grawp ever since they tried to arrest him.   We're not leaving   said Harry.  We need to get into Hogwarts.   Don't be stupid  boy   said Aberforth.  We've got to   said Harry.
 What you've got to do   said Aberforth  leaning forward   is to get as far from here as from here as you can.   You don't understand. There isn't much time. We've got to get into the castle. Dumbledore   I mean 
your brother   wanted us     The firelight made the grimy lenses of Aberforth's glasses momentarily opaque  a bright flat white  and Harry remembered the blind eyes of the giant spider  Aragog.
 My brother Albus wanted a lot of things   said Aberforth   and people had a habit of getting hurt while he was carrying out his grand plans. You get away from this school  Potter  and out of the country if you can. Forget
my brother and his clever schemes. He's gone where none of this can hurt him  and you don't owe him anything.   You don't understand.  said Harry again.  Oh  don't I. said Aberforth quietly.  You don't think I understood my own brother. Think you know Albus
better than I did.   I didn't mean that   said Harry  whose brain felt sluggish with exhaustion and from the surfeit of food and wine.  It's. he left me a job. 
 Did he now.  said Aberforth.  Nice job  I hope. Pleasant. Easy. Sort of thing you'd expect an unqualified wizard kid to be able to do without overstretching themselves.  Ron gave a rather grim laugh. Hermione was looking strained.
 I it's not easy  no   said Harry.  But I've got to      Got to. Why got to. He's dead  isn't he.  said Aberforth roughly.  Let it go  boy  before you follow him. Save yourself.   I can't.   Why not. 
 I     Harry felt overwhelmed; he could not explain  so he took the offensive instead.  But you're fighting too  you're in the Order of the Phoenix      I was   said Aberforth.  The Order of the Phoenix is finished. You Know Who's won  it's over  and anyone
who's pretending different's kidding themselves. It'll never be safe for you here  Potter  he wants you too badly. So go abroad  go into hiding  save yourself. Best take these two with you.  He jerked a thumb at Ron and Hermione.
 They'll be in danger long as they live now everyone knows they've been working with you.   I can't leave   said Harry.  I've got a job      Give it to someone else.   I can't. It's got to be me  Dumbledore explained it all    
 Oh  did he now. And did he tell you everything  was he honest with you.  Harry wanted him with all his heart to say  Yes   but somehow the simple word would not rise to his lips  Aberforth seemed to know what he was thinking.
 I knew my brother  Potter. He learned secrecy at our mother's knee. Secrets and lies  that's how we grew up  and Albus. he was a natural.  The old man's eyes traveled to the painting of the girl over the mantelpiece. It was  now Harry looked around
properly  the only picture in the room. There was no photograph of Albus Dumbledore  nor of anyone else.  Mr. Dumbledore  said Hermione rather timidly.  Is that your sister. Ariana.  Yes.  said Aberforth tersely.  Been reading Rita Skeeter  have you  missy. 
Even by the rosy light of the fire it was clear that Hermione had turned red.  Elphias Doge mentioned her to us   said Harry  trying to spare Hermione.  That old berk   muttered Aberforth  taking another swig of mead.  Thought the sun shone out of my
brother's every office  he did. Well  so did plenty of people  you three included  by the looks of it.  Harry kept quiet. He did not want to express the doubts and uncertainties about Dumbledore that had
riddled him for months now. He had made his choice while he dug Dobby's grave  he had decided to continue along the winding  dangerous path indicated for him by Albus Dumbledore  to accept that he had not been told
everything that he wanted to know  but simply to trust. He had no desire to doubt again; he did not want o hear anything that would deflect him from his purpose. He met Aberforth's gaze  which was so strikingly like his
brothers': The bright blue eyes gave the same impression that they were X raying the object of their scrutiny  and Harry thought that Aberforth knew what he was thinking and despised him for it.  Professor Dumbledore cared about Harry  very much   said Hermione in a low voice.
 Did he now.  said Aberforth.  Funny thing how many of the people my brother cared about very much ended up in a worse state than if he'd left 'em well alone. 
 What do you mean.  asked Hermione breathlessly.  Never you mind   said Aberforth.  But that's a really serious thing to say.  said Hermione.  Are you   are you talking about your sister. 
Aberforth glared at her: His lips moved as if he were chewing the words he was holding back. Then he burst into speech.  When my sister was six years old  she was attacked  by three Muggle boys. They'd seen her doing magic 
spying through the back garden hedge: She was a kid  she couldn't control it  no witch or wizard can at that age. What they saw  scared them  I expect. They forced their way through the hedge  and when she couldn't show them
the trick  they got a bit carried away trying to stop the little freak doing it.  Hermione's eyes were huge in the firelight; Ron looked slightly sick. Aberforth stood up  tall as Albus  and
suddenly terrible in his anger and the intensity of his pain.  It destroyed her  what they did: She was never right again. She wouldn't use magic  but she couldn't get rid
of it; it turned inward and drove her mad  it exploded out of her when she couldn't control it  and at times she was strange and dangerous. But mostly she was sweet and scared and harmless.
 And my father went after the bastards that did it   said Aberforth   and attacked them. And they locked him up in Azkaban for it. He never said why he'd done it  because the Ministry had known what Ariana had become 
she'd have been locked up in St. Mungo's for good. They'd have seen her as a serious threat to the International Statute of Secrecy  unbalanced like she was  with magic exploding out of her at moments when she couldn't keep it in any longer.
 We had to keep her safe and quiet. We moved house  put it about she was ill  and my mother looked after her  and tried to keep her calm and happy.
 I was her favourite   he said  and as he said it  a grubby schoolboy seemed to look out through Aberforth's wrinkles and wrangled beard.  Not Albus  he was always up in his bedroom when he was home  reading his books
and counting his prizes  keeping up with his correspondence with  the most notable magical names of the day   Aberforth succored.  He didn't want to be bothered with her. She liked me best. I could get her to eat when she wouldn't
do it for my mother  I could calm her down  when she was in one of her rages  and when she was quiet  she used to help me feed the goats.  Then  when she was fourteen. See  I wasn't there.  said Aberforth.  If I'd been there  I could have calmed
her down. She had one of her rages  and my mother wasn't as young as she was  and . . . it was an accident. Ariana couldn't control it. But my mother was killed. 
Harry felt a horrible mixture of pity and repulsion; he did not want to hear any more  but Aberforth kept talking  and Harry wondered how long it had been since he had spoken about this; whether  in fact  he had ever spoken about it.
 So that put paid to Albus's trip round the world with little Doge. The pair of 'em came home for my mother's funeral and then Doge went off on his own  and Albus settled down as head of the family. Ha.  Aberforth spat into the fire.
 I'd have looked after her  I told him so  I didn't care about school  I'd have stayed home and done it. He told me I had to finish my education and he'd take over from my mother. Bit of a comedown for Mr. Brilliant 
there's no prizes for looking after your half mad sister  stopping her blowing up the house every other day. But he did all right for a few weeks . . . till he came. 
And now a positively dangerous look crept over Aberforth's face.  Grindelwald. And at last  my brother had an equal to talk to someone just as bright and talented he was. And
looking after Ariana took a backseat then  while they were hatching all their plans for a new Wizarding order and looking for Hallows  and whatever else it was they were so interested in. Grand plans for the benefit of all Wizardkind  and if one
young girl neglected  what did that matter  when Albus was working for the greater good.  But after a few weeks of it  I'd had enough  I had. It was nearly time for me to go hack to Hogwarts  so I told 'em 
both of 'em  face to face  like I am to you  now   and Aberforth looked downward Harry  and it took a little imagination to see him as a teenager  wiry and angry  confronting his elder brother.  I told him  you'd better give it up now. You can't move her 
she's in no fit state  you can't take her with you  wherever it is you're planning to go  when you're making your clever speeches  trying to whip yourselves up a following. He didn't like that.  said Aberforth  and his eyes were briefly occluded by the fireflight on
the lenses of his glasses: They turned white and blind again.  Grindelwald didn't like that at all. He got angry. He told me what a stupid little boy I was  trying to stand in the way of him and my brilliant brother . . . Didn't I understand  my poor sister wouldn't
have to be hidden once they'd changed the world  and led the wizards out of hiding  and taught the Muggles their place.  And there was an argument . . . and I pulled my wand  and he pulled out his  and I had the Cruciatus Curse used on
me by my brother's best friend   and Albus was trying to stop him  and then all three of us were dueling  and the flashing lights and the bangs set her off  she couldn't stand it    
The color was draining from Aberforth's face as though he had suffered a mortal wound.     and I think she wanted to help  but she didn't really know what she was doing  and I don't know which of us did it 
it could have been any of us   and she was dead.  His voice broke on the last word and he dropped down into the nearest chair. Hermione's face was wet with tears  and Ron
was almost as pale as Aberforth. Harry felt nothing but revulsion: He wished he had not heard it  wished he could wash is mind clean of it.  I'm so . . . I'm so sorry   Hermione whispered.  Gone   croaked Aberforth.  Gone forever.  He wiped his nose on hiss cuff and cleared his throat.
  'Course  Grindelwald scarpered. He had a bit of a track record already  back in his own country  and he didn't want Ariana set to his account too. And Albus was free  wasn't he. Free of the burden of his sister  free to become the greatest wizard of the    
 He was never free   said Harry.  I beg your pardon.  said Aberforth.  Never   said Harry.  The night that your brother died  he drank a potion that drove him out of his mind. He started screaming 
pleading with someone who wasn't there. 'Don't hurt them  please . . . hurt me instead.'   Ron and Hermione were staring at Harry. He had never gone into details about what had happened on the island on the lake:
The events that had taken place after he and Dumbledore had returned to Hogwarts had eclipsed it so thoroughly.  He thought he was back there with you and Grindelwald  I know he did   said Harry  remembering Dumbledore whispering  pleading.
 He thought he was watching Grindelwald hurting you and Ariana . . . It was torture to him  if you'd seen him then  you wouldn't say he was free.  Aberforth seemed lost in contemplation of his own knotted and veined hands. After a long pause he said.  How can you be sure  Potter 
that my brother wasn't more interested in the greater good than in you. How can you be sure you aren't dispensable  just like my little sister.  A shard of ice seemed to pierce Harry's heart.
 I don't believe it. Dumbledore loved Harry   said Hermione.  Why didn't he tell him to hide  then. shot back Aberforth.  Why didn't he say to him  'Take care of yourself  here's how to survive' . 
 Because   said Harry before Hermione could answer   sometimes you've got to think about more than your own safety. Sometimes you've got to think about the greater good. This is war.   You're seventeen  boy. 
 I'm of age  and I'm going to keep fighting even if you've given up.   Who says I've given up.   The Order of the Phoenix is finished   Harry repeated   You Know Who's won  it's over  and anyone who's pretending different's kidding themselves. 
 I don't say I like it  but it's the truth.   No  it isn't.  said Harry.  Your brother knew how to finish You Know Who and he passed the knowledge on to me. I'm going to keep going
until I succeed   or I die. Don't think I don't know how this might end. I've known it for years.  He waited for Aberforth to jeer or to argue  but he did not. He merely moved.
 We need to get into Hogwarts   said Harry again.  If you can't help us  we'll wait till daybreak  leave you in peace  and try to find a way in ourselves. If you can help us   well  now would be a great time to mention it. 
Aberforth remained fixed in his chair  gazing at Harry with the eye  that were so extraordinarily like his brother's. At last he cleared his throat  got to his feet  walked around the little table  and approached the portrait of Ariana.  You know what to do   he said.
She smiled  turned  and walked away  not as people in portraits usually did  one of the sides of their frames  but along what seemed to be a long tunnel painted behind her. They watched her slight figure retreating until finally she was swallowed by the darkness.  Er   what   .  began Ron.
 There's only one way in now   said Aberforth.  You must know they've got all the old secret passageways covered at both ends  dementors all around the boundary walls  regular patrols inside the school from what my sources tell me. The place has never been so heavily guarded.
How you expect to do anything once you get inside it  with Snape in charge and the Carrows as his deputies. . . well  that's your lookout  isn't it. You say you're prepared to die.   But what . . . .  said Hermione  frowning at Ariana's picture.
A tiny white dot reappeared at the end of the painted tunnel  and now Ariana was walking back toward them  growing bigger and bigger as she came. But there was somebody else with her now  someone taller than she was  who was limping along  looking excited. His hair was
longer than Harry had ever seen. He appeared and torn. Larger and larger the two figures grew  until only their heads and shoulders filled the portrait. Then the whole thing swang forward on the wall like a little door  and the entrance to a real tunnel was revealed. And our of it  his hair overgrown 
his face cut  his robes ripped  clambered the real Neville Longbottom  who gave a roar of delight  leapt down from the mantelpiece and yelled.  I knew you'd come. I knew it  Harry.  The Lost Diadem  Neville    what the    how    . 
But Neville had spotted Ron and Hermione  and with yells of delight was hugging them too. The longer Harry looked at Neville  the worse he appeared: One of his eyes was swollen yellow and purple  there were gouge marks on his face  and his general air of unkemptness suggested that he had been living enough. Nevertheless  his battered visage shone with happiness as he let go of Hermione and said again   I knew you'd come. Kept telling Seamus it was a matter of time.   Neville  what's happened to you. 
 What. This.  Neville dismissed his injuries with a shake of the head.  This is nothing  Seamus is worse. You'll see. Shall we get going then. Oh   he turned to Aberforth   Ab  there might be a couple more people no the way.   Couple more.  repeated Aberforth ominously.  What d'you mean  a couple more  Longbottom. There's a curfew and a Camwaulding Charm on the whole village. 
 I know  that's why they'll be Apparating directly into the bar   said Neville.  Just send them down the passage when they get here  will you. Thanks a lot.  Neville held out his hand to Hermione and helped her to climb up onto the mantelpiece and into the tunnel; Ron followed  then Neville. Harry addressed Aberforth.
 I don't know how to thank you. You've saved our lives twice.   Look after 'em  then   said Aberforth gruffly.  I might not be able to save 'em a third time. 
Harry chambered up onto the mantelpiece and through the hole behind Ariana's portrait. There were smooth stone steps on the other side: It looked as though the passageway had been there for years. Brass lamps hung from the walls and the earthy floor was worn and smooth; as they walked  their shadows rippled  fanlike  across the wall.
 How long's this been here.  Ron asked as they set off.  It isn't on the Marauder's Map  is it Harry. I thought there were only seven passages in and out of school. 
 They sealed off all of those before the start of the year   said Neville.  There's no chance of getting through any of them now  not with the curses over the entrances and Death Eaters and dementors waiting at the exits.  He started walking backward  beaming  drinking them in.  Never mind that stuff . Is it true. Did you break into Gringotts. Did you escape on a dragon. It's everywhere  everyone's talking about it  Terry Boot got beaten up by Carrow for yelling about it in the Great Hall at dinner.   Yeah  it's true   said Harry.
Neville laughed gleefully.  What did you do with the dragon.   Released it into the wild   said Ron.  Hermione was all for keeping it as a pet   Don't exaggerate  Ron   
 But what have you been doing. People have been saying you've just been on the run  Harry  but I don't think so. I think you've been up to something.   You're right   said Harry   but tell us about Hogwarts  Neville  we haven't heard anything. 
 It's been .. Well  it's not really like Hogwarts anymore   said Neville  the smile fading from his face as he spoke.  Do you know about the Carrows.   Those two Death Eaters who teach here.   They do more than teach   said Neville.  They're in charge of all discipline. They like punishment  the Carrows.   Like Umbridge. 
 Nah  they make her look tame. The other teachers are all supposed to refer us to the Carrows if we do anything wrong. They don't  though  if they can avoid it. You can tell they all hate them as much as we do. 
 Amycus  the bloke  he teaches what used to be Defense Against the Dark Arts  except now it's just the Dark Arts. We're supposed to practice the Cruciatus Curse on people who've earned detentions      What.  Harry  Ron  and Hermione's united voices echoed up and down the passage.
 Yeah   said Neville.  That's how I got this one   he pointed at a particularly deep gash in his cheek   I refused to do it. Some people are into it  though; Crabbe and Goyle love it. First time they've ever been top in anything  I expect. 
 Alecto  Amycus's sister  teaches Muggle Studies  which is compulsory for everyone. We've all got to listen to her explain how Muggles are like animals  stupid and dirty  and how they drive wizards into hiding by being vicious toward them  and how the natural order is being reestablished. I got this one   he indicated another slash to his face   for asking her how much Muggle blood she and her brother have got.   Blimey  Neville   said Ron   there's a time and a place for getting a smart mouth. 
 You didn't see her   said Neville.  You wouldn't have stood it either. The thing is  it helps when people stand up to them  it gives everyone hope. I used to notice that when you did it  Harry.   But they've used you as a knife sharpener   said Ron  winding slightly as they passed a lamp and Neville's injuries were thrown into even greater relief. Neville shrugged.
 Doesn't matter. They don't want to spill too much pure blood  so they'll torture us a bit if we're mouthy but they won't actually kill us.  Harry did not know what was worse  the things that Neville was saying or the matter of fact tone in which he said them.
 The only people in real danger are the ones whose friends and relatives on the outside are giving trouble. They get taken hostage. Old Xeno Lovegood was getting a bit too outspoken in The Quibbler  so they dragged Luna off the train on the way back for Christmas.   Neville  she's all right  we've seen her   
 Yeah  I know  she managed to get a message to me.  From his pocket he pulled a golden coin  and Harry recognized it as one of the fake Galleons that Dumbledore's Army had used to send one another messages.
 These have been great   said Neville  beaming at Hermione.  The Carrows never rumbled how we were communicating  it drove them mad. We used to sneak out at night and put graffiti on the walls: Dumbledore's Army  Still Recruiting  stuff like that. Snape hated it.   You used to.  said Harry  who had noticed the past tense.
 Well  it got more difficult as time went one   said Neville.  We lost Luna at Christmas  and Ginny never came back after Easter  and the three of us were sort of the leaders. The Carrows seemed to know I was behind a lot of it  so they started coming down on me hard  and then Michael Corner went and got caught releasing a first year they'd chained up  and they tortured him pretty badly. That scared people off.   No kidding   muttered Ron  as the passage began to slope upward.
 Yeah  well  I couldn't ask people to go through what Michael did  so we dropped those kinds of stunts. But we were still fighting  doing underground stuff  right up until a couple of weeks ago. That's when they decided there was only one way to stop me  I suppose  and they went for Gran.   They what.  said Harry  Ron  and Hermione together.
 Yeah   said Neville  panting a little now  because the passage was climbing so steeply   well  you can see their thinking. It had worked really well  kidnapping kids to force their relatives to behave. I s'pose it was only a matter of time before they did it the other way around. Thing was   he faced them  and Harry was astonished to see that he was grinning   they bit off a bit more than they could chew with Gran. Little old witch living alone  they probably thought hey didn't need to send anyone particularly powerful. Anyway   Neville laughed   Dawlish is still in St. Mungo's and Gran's on the run. She sent me a letter   he clapped a hand to the breast pocket of his robes   telling me she was proud of me  that I'm my parent's son  and to keep it up.   Cool   said Ron.
 Yea   said Neville happily.  Only thing was  once they realized they had no hold over me  they decided Hogwarts could do without me after all. I don't know whether they were planning to kill me or send me to Azkaban  either way  I knew it was time to disappear.   But   said Ron  looking thoroughly confused   aren't   aren't we heading straight back for Hogwarts.   'Course   said Neville.  You'll see. We're here. 
They turned a corner and there ahead of them was the end of the passage. Another short flight of steps led to a door just like the one hidden behind Ariana's portrait. Neville pushed it open and climbed through. As Harry followed  he heard Neville call out for unseen people:
 Look who it is. Didn't I tell you.  As Harry emerged into the room behind the passage  there were several screams and yells:  HARRY.   It's Potter  it's POTTER.   Ron.   Hermione. 
He had a confused impression of colored hangings  of lamps and many faces. The next moment  he  Ron  and Hermione were engulfed  hugged  pounded on the back  their hair ruffled  their hands shaken  by what seemed to be more than twenty people. They might have just won a Quidditch final.  Okay  okay  calm down.  Neville called  and as the crowd backed away  Harry was able to take in their surroundings.
He did not recognize the dorm at all. It was enormous  and looked rather like the interior of a particularly sumptuous tree house  or perhaps a gigantic ship's cabin. Multicolored hammocks were strung from the ceiling and from the balcony that ran around the dark wood paneled and windowless walls  which were covered in bright tapestry hangings. Harry saw the gold Gryffindor lion  emblazoned on scarlet; the black badger of Hufflepuff  set against yellow; and the bronze eagle of Ravenclaw  on blue. The silver and green of Slytherin alone were absent. There were bulging bookcases  a few broomsticks propped against the walls  and in the corner  a large wood cased wireless.  Where are we. 
 Room of Requirement  of course.  said Neville.  Surpassed itself  hasn't it. The Carrows were chasing me  and I knew I had just one chance for a hideout: I managed to get through the door and this is what I found. Well  it wasn't exactly like this when I arrived  it was a load smaller  there was only one hammock and just Gryffindor hangings. But it's expanded as more and more of the D.A. have arrived.   And the Carrows can't get in.  asked Harry  looking around for the door.
 No   said Seamus Finnigan  whom Harry had not recognized until he spoke: Seamus's face was bruised and puffy.  It's a proper hideout  as long as one of us stays in here  they can't get at us  the door won't open. It's all down to Neville. He really gets this room. You've got to ask for exactly what you need   like   I don't want any Carrow supporters to be able to get in'   and it'll do it for you. You've just got to make sure you close the loopholes. Neville's the man. 
 It's quite straightforward  really   said Neville modestly.  I'd been in here about a day and a half  and getting really hungry  and wishing I could get something to eat  and that's when the passage to Hog's Head opened up. I went through it and met Aberforth. He's been providing us with food  because for some reason  that's the one thing the room doesn't really do.  Yeah  well  food's one of the five exceptions to Gamp's Law of Elemental Transfiguration   said Ron to general astonishment.
 So we've been hiding out here for nearly two weeks   said Seamus   and it just makes more hammocks every time we need room  and it even sprouted a pretty good bathroom once girls started turning up    
  and thought they'd quite like to wash  yes   supplied Lavender Brown  whom Harry had not noticed until that point. Now that he looked around properly  he recognized many familiar faces. Both Patil twins were there  as were Terry Boot  Ernie Macmillan  Anthony Goldstein  and Michael Corner.
 Tell us what you've been up to  though   said Ernie.  There've been so many rumors  we've been trying to keep up with you on Potterwatch.  He pointed at the wireless.  You didn't break into Gringotts. 
 They did.  said Neville.  And the dragon's true too.  There was a smattering of applause and a few whoops; Ron took a bow.  What were you after.  asked Seamus eagerly.
Before any of them could parry the question with one of their own  Harry felt a terrible  scorching pain in the lightning scar. As he turned his back hastily on the curious and delighted faces  the Room of Requirement vanished  and he was standing inside a ruined stone shack  and the rotting floorboards were ripped apart at his feet  a disinterred golden box lay open and empty beside the hole  and Voldemort's scream of fury vibrated inside his head.
With an enormous effort he pulled out of Voldemort's mind again  back to where he stood  swaying  in the Room of Requirement  sweat pouring from his face and Ron holding him up.  Are you all right  Harry.  Neville was saying.  What to sit down. I expect you're tired  aren't    . 
 No   said Harry. He looked at Ron and Hermione  trying to tell them without words that Voldemort had just discovered the loss of one of the other Horcruxes. Time was running out fast: If Voldemort chose to visit Hogwarts next  they would miss their chance.  We need to get going   he said  and their expressions told him that they understood.  What are we going to do  then  Harry.  asked Seamus.  What's the plan. 
 Plan.  repeated Harry. He was exercising all his willpower to prevent himself succumbing again to Voldemort's rage: His scar was still burning.  Well  there's something we   Ron  Hermione  and I   need to do  and then we'll get out of here.  Nobody was laughing or whooping anymore. Neville looked confused.
 What d'you mean  'get out of here'.   We haven't come back to stay   said Harry  rubbing his scar  trying to soothe the pain.  There's something important we need to do      What is it. 
 I   I can't tell you.  There was a ripple of muttering at this: Neville's brows contracted.  Why can't you tell us. It's something to do with fighting You Know Who  right.   Well  yeah    
 Then we'll help you.  The other members of Dumbledore's Army were nodding  some enthusiastically  others solemnly. A couple of them rose from their chairs to demonstrate their willingness for immediate action.
 You don't understand   Harry seemed to have said that a lot in the last few hours.  We   we can't tell you. We've got to do it   alone.   Why.  asked Neville.
 Because .   In his desperation to start looking for the missing Horcrux  or at least have a private discussion with Ron and Hermione about where they might commence their search. Harry found it difficult to gather his thoughts. His scar was still searing.  Dumbledore left the three of us a job   he said carefully   and we weren't supposed to tell   I mean  he wanted us to do it  just the three of us. 
 We're his army   said Neville.  Dumbledore's Army. We were all in it together  we've been keeping it going while you three have been off on your own     It hasn't exactly been a picnic  mate   said Ron.
 I never said it had  but I don't see why you can't trust us. Everyone in this room's been fighting and they've been driven in here because the Carrows were hunting them down. Everyone in here's proven they're loyal to Dumbledore   loyal to you. 
 Look   Harry began  without knowing what he was going to say  but it did not matter. The tunnel door had just opened behind him.  We got your message  Neville. Hello you three  I thought you must be here. 
It was Luna and Dean. Seamus gave a great roar of delight and ran to hug his best friend.  Hi  everyone.  said Luna happily.  Oh  it's great to be back.   Luna   said Harry distractedly   what are you doing here. How did you    . 
 I sent for her   said Neville  holding up the fake Galleon.  I promised her and Ginny that if you turned up I'd let them know. We all thought that if you came back  it would mean revolution. That we were going to overthrow Snape and the Carrows.   Of course that's what it means   said Luna brightly.  Isn't it  Harry. We're going to fight them out of Hogwarts. 
 Listen   said Harry with a rising sense of panic   I'm sorry  but that's not what we came back for. There's something we've got to do  and then     You're going to leave us in this mess.  demanded Michael Cornet.
 No.  said Ron.  What we're doing will benefit everyone in the end  it's all about trying to get rid of You Know Who      Then let us help.  said Neville angrily.  We want to be a part of it. 
There was another noise behind them  and Harry turned. His heart seemed to fall: Ginny was now climbing through the hole in the wall  closely followed by Fred  George  and Lee Jordan. Ginny gave Harry a radiant smile: He had forgotten  he had never fully appreciated  how beautiful she was  but he had never been less pleased to see her.  Aberforth's getting a bit annoyed   said Fred  raising his hand in answer to several cries of greeting.  He wants a kip  and his bar's turned into a railway station. 
Harry's mouth fell open. Right behind Lee Jordan came Harry's old girlfriend  Cho Chang. She smiled at him.  I got the message   she said  holding up her own fake Galleon and she walked over to sit beside Michael Corner.
 So what's the plan  Harry.  said George.  There isn't one   said Harry  still disoriented by the sudden appearance of all these people  unable to take everything in while his scar was still burning so fiercely.
 Just going to make it up as we go along  are we. My favorite kind   said Fred.  You've got to stop this.  Harry told Neville.  What did you call them all back for. This is insane    
 We're fighting  aren't we.  said Dean  taking out his fake Galleon.  The message said Harry was back  and we were going to fight. I'll have to get a wand  though     You haven't got a wand  .  began Seamus. Ron turned suddenly to Harry.  Why can't they help.   What. 
 They can help.  He dropped his voice and said  so that none of them could hear but Hermione  who stood between them   We don't know where it is. We've got to find it fast. We don't have to tell them it's a Horcrux. 
Harry looked from Ron to Hermione  who murmured   I think Ron's right. We don't even know what we're looking for  we need them.  And when Harry looked unconvinced   You don't have to do everything alone  Harry. 
Harry thought fast  his scar still prickling  his head threatening to split again. Dumbledore had warned him against telling anyone but Ron and Hermione about the Horcruxes. Secrets and lies  that's how we grew up  and Albus . he was a natural . Was he turning into Dumbledore  keeping his secrets clutched to his chest  afraid to trust. But Dumbledore had trusted Snape  and where had that led. To murder at the top of the highest tower .
 All right   he said quietly to the other two.  Okay   he called to the room at large  and all noise ceased: Fred and George  who had been cracking jokes for the benefit of those nearest  fell silent  and all of the looked alert  excited.
 There's something we need to find   Harry said.  Something   something that'll help us overthrow You Know Who. It's here at Hogwarts  but we don't know where. It might have belonged to Ravenclaw. Has anyone heard of an object like that. Has anyone come across something with her eagle on it  for instance.  He looked hopefully toward the little group of Ravenclaws  to Padma  Michael  Terry  and Cho  but it was Luna who answered  perched on the arm of Ginny's chair.
 Well  there's her lost diadem. I told you about it  remember  Harry. The lost diadem of Ravenclaw. Daddy's trying to duplicate it.   Yeah  but the lost diadem   said Michael Corner  rolling his eyes   is lost  Luna. That's sort of the point.   When was it lost.  asked Harry.
 Centuries ago  they say   said Cho  and Harry's heart sank.  Professor Flitwick says the diadem vanished with Ravenclaw herself. People have looked  but   she appealed to her fellow Ravenclaws.  Nobody's ever found a trace of it  have them.  They all shook their heads.  Sorry  but what is a diadem.  asked Ron.
 It's a kind of crown   said Terry Boot.  Ravenclaw's was supposed to have magical properties  enhance the wisdom of the wearer.   Yes  Daddy's Wrackspurt siphons     But Harry cut across Luna.  And none of you have ever seen anything that looks like it.
They all shook their heads again. Harry looked at Ron and Hermione and his own disappointment was mirrored back at him. An object that had been lost this long  and apparently without trace  did not seem like a good candidate for the Horcrux hidden in the castle . Before he could formulate a new question  however  Cho spoke again.
 If you'd like to see what the diadem's supposed to look like  I could take you up to our common room and show you  Harry. Ravenclaw's wearing it in her statue. 
Harry's scar scorched again: For a moment the Room of Requirement swam before him  and he saw instead the dark earth soaring beneath him and felt the great snake wrapped around his shoulders. Voldemort was flying again  whether to the underground lake or here  to the castle  he did not know: Either way  there was hardly any time left.
 He's on the move   he said quietly to Ron and Hermione. He glanced at Cho and then back at them.  Listen  I know it's not much of a lead  but I'm going to go look at this statue  at least find out what the diadem looks like. Wait for me here and keep  you know   the other one   safe. 
Cho had got to her feet  but Ginny said rather fiercely   No  Luna will take Harry  won't you  Luna.   Oooh  yes  I'd like to   said Luna happily  as Cho sat down again  looking disappointed.  How do we get out.  Harry asked Neville.  Over here. 
 He led Harry and Luna to a corner  where a small cupboard opened onto a steep staircase.  It comes out somewhere different every day  so they've never been able to find it   he said.  Only trouble is  we never know exactly where we're going to end up when we go out. Be careful  Harry  they're always patrolling the corridors at night.   No problem   said Harry.  See you in a bit. 
He and Luna hurried up the staircase  which was long  lit by torches  and turned corners in unexpected places. At last they reached what appeared to be solid wall.  Get under here   Harry told Luna  pulling out the Invisibility Cloak and throwing it over both of them. He gave the wall a little push.
It melted away at his touch and they slipped outside. Harry glanced back and saw that it had resealed itself at once. They were standing in a dark corridor. Harry pulled Luna back into the shadows  fumbled in the pouch around his neck  and took out the Marauder's Map. Holding it close to his nose he searched  and located his and Luna's dots at last.  We're up on the fifth floor   he whispered  watching filch moving away from them  a corridor ahead.  Come on  this way.  They crept off.
Harry had prowled the castle at night many times before  but never had his heart hammered that fast  never had so much depended on his safe passage through the place. Through squares of moonlight upon the floor  past suits of armor whose helmets creaked at the sound of their soft footsteps  around corners beyond which who knew what lurked. Harry and Luna walked  checking the Marauder's Map whenever light permitted  twice pausing to allow a ghost to pass without drawing attention to themselves. He expected to encounter an obstacle at any moment; his worst fear was Peeves  and he strained his ears with every step to hear the first  telltale signs of the poltergeist's approach.  The way  Harry   breathed Luna  plucking his sleeve and pulling him toward a spiral staircase.
They climbed in tight  dizzying circles; Harry had never been up here before. At last they reached a door. There was no handle and no keyhole: nothing but a plain expanse of aged wood  and a bronze knocker in the shape an eagle.
Luna reached out a pale hand  which looked eerie floating in midair  unconnected to arm or body. She knocked once  and in the silence it sounded to Harry like a cannon blast. At once the beak of the eagle opened  but instead of a bird's called  a soft  musical voice said   Which came first  the phoenix or the flame. 
 Hmm . What do you think  Harry.  said Luna  looking thoughtful.  What. Isn't there a password.   Oh no  you've got to answer a question   said Luna.  What if you get it wrong. 
 Well  you have to wait for somebody who gets it right   said Luna.  That way you learn  you see.   Yeah . Trouble is  we can't really afford to wait for anyone else  Luna. 
 No  I see what you mean   said Luna seriously.  Well then  I think the answer is that a circle has no beginning.   Well reasoned   said the voice  and the door swung open.
The deserted Ravenclaw common room was a wide  circular room  airier than any Harry had ever seen at Hogwarts. Graceful arched windows punctuated the walls  which were hung with blue and bronze silks. By day  the Ravenclaws would have a spectacular view of the surrounding mountains. The ceiling was domed and painted with stars  which were echoed in the midnight blue carpet. There were tables  chairs  and bookcases  and in a niche opposite the door stood a tall statue of white marble.
Harry recognized Rowena Ravenclaw from the bust he had seen at Luna's house. The statue stood beside a door that led  he guessed  to dormitories above. He strode right up to the marble woman  and she seemed to look back at him with a quizzical half smile on her face  beautiful yet slightly intimidating. A delicate looking circlet had been reproduced in marble on top of her head. It was not unlike the tiara Fleur had worn at her wedding. There were tiny words etched into it. Harry stepped out from under the Cloak and climbed up onto Ravenclaw's plinth to read them.  'Wit beyond measure is man's greatest treasure.'   Which makes you pretty skint  witless   said a cackling voice.
Harry whirled around  slipped off the plinth  and landed on the floor. The sloping shouldered figure of Alecto Carrow was standing before him  and even as Harry raised his wand  she pressed a stubby forefinger to the skull and snake branded on her forearm. The Sacking of Severus Snape
The moment her finger touched the Mark  Harry's scar burned savagely  the starry room vanished from sight  and he was standing upon an outcrop of rock beneath a cliff  and the sea was washing around him and there was a triumph in his heart   They have the boy.
A loud bang brought Harry back to where he stood. Disoriented  he raised his wand  but the witch before him was already falling forward; she hit the ground so hard that the glass in the bookcases tinkled.  I've never Stunned anyone except in our D.A. lessons   said Luna  sounding mildly interested.  That was noisier than I though it would be. 
And sure enough  the ceiling had begun to tremble Scurrying  echoing footsteps were growing louder from behind the door leading to the dormitories. Luna's spell had woken Ravenclaws sleeping above.  Luna  where are you. I need to get under the Cloak. 
Luna's feet appeared out of nowhere ; he hurried to her side and she let the Cloak fall back over them as the door opened and a stream of Ravenclaws  all in their nightclothes  flooded into the common room. there were gasps and cries of surprise as they saw Alecto lying there unconscious. Slowly they shuffled in around her  a savage beast that might wake at any moment and attack them. Then one brave little first year darted up to her and prodded her backside with his big toe.  I think she might be dead.  he shouted with delight.  Oh look   whispered Luna happily  as the Ravenclaws crowded in around Alecto.  They're pleased.   Yeah. great.  
Harry closed his eyes  and as his scar throbbed he chose to sink again into Voldemort's mind.. He was moving along the tunnel into the first cave.. He had chosen to make sure of the locker before coming.but that would not take him long..
There was a rap on the common room door and every Ravenclaw froze. From the other side  Harry heard the soft  musical voice that issued from the eagle door knocker:  Where do Vanished objects go. 
 I dunno  do I. Shut it.  snarled an uncouth voice that Harry knew was that of the Carrow brother   Amycus   Alecto. Alecto. Are you there. Have you got him. Open the door.  The Ravenclaws were whispering amongst themselves  terrified. Then without warning  there came a series of loud bangs  as though somebody was firing a gun into the door.
 ALECTO. If he comes  and we haven't got Potter   d'you want to go the same way as the Malfoys. ANSWER ME.  Amycus bellowed  shaking the door for all he was worth  but still it did not open. The Ravenclaws were all backing away  and some of the most frightened began scampering back up the stair case to their beds. Then  just as Harry was wondering whether he ought not to blast open the door and Stun Amycus before the Death Eater could do anything else  a second  most familiar voice rang out beyond the door.  May I ask what you are doing  Professor Carrow.   Trying to get   through this damned   door.  shouted Amycus.  Go and get Flitwick. Get him to open it  now. 
 But isn't your sister in there  asked Professor McGonagall.  Didn't Professor Flitwick let her in earlier this evening  at your urgent request. Perhaps she could open the door for you. Then you needn't wake up half the castle.   She ain't answering  you old besom. You open it. Garn. Do it  now. 
 Certainly  if you wish it   said Professor McGonagall  with awful coldness  There was a genteel tap of the knocker and the musical voice asked again.  Where do Vanished objects go.   Into non being  which is to say  everything   replied Professor McGonagall.  Nicely phrased   replied the eagle door knocker  and the door swung open.
The few Ravenclaws who had remained behind sprinted for the stairs as Amycus burst over the threshold  brandishing his wand. Hunched like his sister  he had a pallid  doughy face and tiny eyes  which fell at once on Alecto  sprawled motionless on the floor. He let out a yell of fury and fear.
 What've they done  the little whelps.  he screamed.  I'll Cruciate the lot of 'em till they tell me who did it   and what's the Dark Lord going to say.  he shrieked  standing over his sister and smacking himself on the forehead with his fist   We haven't got him  and they've gone and killed her.   She's only Stunned   said Professor McGonagall impatiently  who had stooped down to examine Alecto.  She'll be perfectly all right. 
 No she bludgering well won't.  bellowed Amycus.  Not after the Dark Lord gets hold of her. She's gone and sent for him  I felt me Mark burn  and he thinks we've got Potter. 
 'Got Potter'.  said Professor McGonagall sharply   What do you mean  'got Potter'.   He told us Potter might try and get inside Ravenclaw Tower  and to send for him if we caught him. 
 Why would Harry Potter try to get inside Ravenclaw Tower. Potter belongs in my House.  Beneath the disbelief and anger  Harry heard a little strain of pride in her voice and affection for Minerva McGonagall gushed up inside him.
 We was told he might come in here.  said Carrow.  I dunno why  do I.  Professor McGonagall stood up and her beady eyes swept the room. Twice they passed right over the place where Harry and Luna stood.
 We can push it off on the kids   said Amycus  his pig like face suddenly crafty.  Yeah  that's what we'll do. We'll say Alecto was ambushed by the kids  them kids up there     he looked up at the starry ceiling toward the dormitories      and we'll say they forced her to pres her Mark  and that's why he got a false alarm.. He can punish them. Couple of kids more or less  what's the difference. 
 Only the difference between truth and lied  courage and cowardice   said Professor McGonagall  who had turned pale   a difference  in short  which you and your sister seem unable to appreciate. But let me make one thing very clear. You are not going to pass off y9our many ineptitudes on the students of Hogwarts. I shall not permit it.   Excuse me. 
Amycus moved forward until he was offensively close to Professor McGonagall  his face within inches of hers. She refused to back away  but looked down at him as if he were something disgusting she had found stuck to the lavatory seat.
 It's not a case of what you'll permit  Minerva McGonagall. Your time's over. It's us what's in charge here now  and you'll back me up or you'll pay the price.  And he spat in her face. Harry pulled the Cloak off himself  raised his wand  and said   You shouldn't have done that.  As Amycus spun around  Harry shouted   Crucio. 
The Death Eater was lifted off his feet. He writhed through the air like a drowning man  thrashing and howling in pain  and then  with a crunch and a shattering of glass  he smashed into the front of a bookcase and crumpled  insensible  to the floor.
 I see what Bellatrix meant   said Harry  the blood thundering through his brain   you need to really mean it.   Potter.  whispered Professor McGonagall  clutching her heart.  Potter    you're here. What   . How   .  She struggled to pull herself together.  Potter  that was foolish.   He spat at you   said Harry.
 Potter  I     that was very     gallant of you     but don't you realize   .   Yeah  I do   Harry assured her. Somehow her panic steadied him.  Professor McGonagall  Voldemort's on the way. 
 Oh  are we allowed to say the name now.  asked Luna with an air of interest  pulling off the Invisibility Cloak. The appearance of a second outlaw seemed to overwhelm Professor McGonagall  who staggered backward and fell into a nearby chair  clutching at the neck of her old tartan dressing gown.  I don't think it makes any difference what we call him   Harry told Luna.  He already knows where I am. 
In a distant part of Harry's brain  that part connected to the angry  burning scar  he could see Voldemort sailing fast over the dark lake in the ghostly green boat.. He had nearly reached the island where the stone basin stood..
 You must flee   whispered Professor McGonagall   Now Potter  as quickly as you can.   I can't   said Harry   There's something I need to do. Professor  so you know where the diadem of Ravenclaw is. 
 The d diadem of Ravenclaw. Of course not     hasn't it been lost for centuries.  She sat up a little straighter  Potter  it was madness  utter madness  for you to enter this castle      I had to   said Harry.  Professor  there's something hidden here that I'm supposed to find  and it could be the diadem    if I could just speak to Professor Flitwick    
There was a sound of movement  of clinking glass. Amycus was coming round. Before Harry or Luna could act  Professor McGonagall rose to her feet  pointed her wand at the groggy Death Eater  and said   Imperio. 
Amycus got up  walked over to his sister  picked up her wand  then shuffled obediently to Professor McGonagall and handed it over along with his own. Then he lay down on the floor beside Alecto. Professor McGonagall waved her wand again  and a length of shimmering silver rope appeared out of thin air and snaked around the Carrows  binding them tightly together.  Potter   said Professor McGonagall  turning to face him again with superb indifference to the Carrows' predicament.  if He Who Must Not Be Named does indeed know that you are here    
As she said it  a wrath that was like physical pain blazed through Harry  setting his scar on fire  and for a second he looked down upon a basin whose potion had turned clear  and saw that no golden locket lay safe beneath the surface   .  Potter  are you all right.  said a voice  and Harry came back. He was clutching Luna's shoulder to steady himself.
 Time's running out  Voldemort's getting nearer  Professor  I'm acting on Dumbledore's orders  I must find what he wanted me to find. But we've got to get the students out while I'm searching the castle    It's me Voldemort wants  but he won't care about killing a few more or less  not now     not now he knows I'm attacking Horcruxes  Harry finished the sentence in his head.
 You're acting on Dumbledore's orders.  she repeated with a look of dawning wonder. Then she drew herself up to her fullest height.  We shall secure the school against He Who Must Not Be Named while you search for this     this object.   Is that possible. 
 I think so   said Professor McGonagall dryly   we teachers are rather good at magic  you know. I am sure we will be able to hold him off for a while if we all put our best efforts into it. Of course  something will have to be done about Professor Snape      Let me     
    and if Hogwarts is about to enter a state of siege  with the Dark Lord at the gates  it would indeed be advisable to take as many innocent people out of the way as possible. With the Floo Network under observation  and Apparition impossible within the grounds      There's a way   said Harry quickly  and he explained about the passageway leading into the Hog's Head.
 Potter  we're talking about hundreds of students      I know  Professor  but if Voldemort and the Death Eaters are concentrating on the school boundaries they won't be interested in anyone who's Disapparating out of Hog's Head. 
 There's something in that   she agreed. She pointed her wand at the Carrows  and a silver net fell upon their bound bodies  tied itself around them  and hoisted them into the air  where they dangled beneath the blue and gold ceiling like two large  ugly sea creatures.  Come. We must alert the other Heads of House. You'd better put that Cloak back on. 
She marched toward the door  and as she did so she raised her wand. From the tip burst three silver cats with spectacle markings around their eyes. the Patronuses ran sleekly ahead  filling the spiral staircase with silvery light  as Professor McGonagall  Harry  and Luna hurried back down.
Along the corridors they raced  and one by one the Patronuses left them. Professor McGonagall's tartan dressing gown rustled over the floor  and Harry and Luna jogged behind her under the Cloak.
They had descended two more floors when another set of quiet joined theirs. Harry  whose scar was still prickling  heard them first. He felt in the pouch around his neck for the Marauder's Map  but before he could take it our  McGonagall too seemed to become aware of their company. She halted  raised her wand ready to duel  and said   Who's there.   It is I   said a low voice. From behind a suit of armor stepped Severus Snape.
Hatred boiled up in Harry at the sight of him. He had forgotten the details of Snape's appearance in the magnitude of his crimes  forgotten how his greasy black hair hung in curtains around his thin face  how his black eyes had a dead  cold look. He was not wearing nightclothes  but was dressed in his usual black cloak  and he too was holding his wand ready for a fight.  Where are the Carrows.  he asked quietly.  Wherever you told them to be  I expect  Severus   said Professor McGonagall.
Snape stepped nearer  and his eyes flitted over Professor McGonagall into the air around her  as if he knew that Harry was there. Harry held his wand up too  ready to attack.  I was under the impression   said Snape   That Alecto had apprehended an intruder.   Really.  said Professor McGonagall.  And what gave you that impression. 
Snape mad a slight flexing movement of his left arm  where the Dark Mark was branded into his skin.  Oh  but naturally   said Professor McGonagall.  You Death Eaters have your own private means of communication  I forgot. 
Snape pretended not to have heard her. His eyes were still probing the air all about her  and he was moving gradually closer  with an air of hardly noticing what he was doing.
 I did not know that it was your night to patrol the corridors Minerva.   You have some objection.   I wonder what could have brought you out of our bed at this late hour. 
 I thought I heard a disturbance   said Professor McGonagall.  Really. But all seems calm.  Snape looked into her eyes.  Have you seen Harry Potter  Minerva. Because if you have. I must insist    
Professor McGonagall moved faster than Harry could have believed. Her wand slashed through the air and for a split second Harry thought that Snape must crumple  unconscious  but the swiftness of his Shield Charm was such that McGonagall was thrown off balance. =She brandished her wand at a touch on the wall and it flew out of its bracket. Harry  about to curse Snape  was forced to pull Luna out of the way of the descending flames  which became a ring of fire that filled the corridor and flew like a lasso at Snape   
Then it was no longer fire  but a great black serpent that McGonagall blasted to smoke  which re formed and solidified in seconds to become a swarm of pursuing daggers. Snape avoided them only by forcing the suit of armor in front of him  and with echoing clangs the daggers sank  one after another  into its breast   
 Minerva.  said a squeaky voice  and looking behind him  still shielding Luna from flying spells  Harry saw Professors Flitwick and Sprout sprinting up the corridor toward them in their nightclothes  with the enormous Professor Slughorn panting along at the rear.  No.  squealed Flitwick  raising his wand.  You'll do no more murder at Hogwarts. 
Flitwick's spell hit the suit of armor behind which Snape had taken shelter. With a clatter it came to life. Snape struggled free of the crushing arms and sent it flying back toward his attackers. Harry and Luna had to dive sideways to avoid it as it smashed into the wall and shattered. When Harry looked up again  Snape was in full flight  McGonagall  Flitwick  and Sprout all thundering after him. He hurtled through a classroom door and  moments later  he heard McGonagall cry   Coward. COWARD.   What's happened  what's happened.  asked Luna.
Harry dragged her to her feet and they raced along the corridor  trailing the Invisibility Cloak behind them  into the deserted classroom where Professors McGonagall  Flitwick  and Sprout were standing at a smashed window.  He jumped   said Professor McGonagall as Harry and Luna ran into the room.
 You mean he's dead.  Harry sprinted to the window  ignoring Flitwick's and Sprout's yells of shock at his sudden appearance.  No  he's not dead   said McGonagall bitterly.  Unlike Dumbledore  he was still carrying a wand. and he seems to have learned a few tricks from his master. 
With a tingle of horror  Harry saw in the distance a huge  bat like shape flying through the darkness toward the perimeter wall. There were heavy footfalls behind them  and a great deal of puffing. Slughorn had just caught up.
 Harry.  he panted  massaging his immense chest beneath his emerald green silk pajamas.  My dear boy. what a surprise.Minerva  do please explain.Severus.what..   Our headmaster is taking a short break   said Professor McGonagall  pointing at the Snape shaped hole in the window.
 Professor.  Harry shouted his hand on his forehead  He could see the Inferi filled lake sliding beneath him  and he felt a ghostly green boat bump into the underground shore  and Voldemort lept from it with murder in his heart     Professor  we've got to barricade the school  he's coming now. 
 Very well. He Who Must Not Be Named is coming   she told the other teachers. Sprout and Flitwick gasped. Slughorn let out a low groan.  Potter has work to do in the castle on Dumbledore's orders. We need to put in place every protection of which we are capable while Potter does what he needs to do.   You realize   of course  that nothing we do will be able to keep out You Know Who indefinitely.  squeaked Flitwick.  But we can hold him up.  said Professor Sprout.
 Thank you  Pomona   said Professor McGonagall  and between the two witches there passed a look of grim understanding. I suggest we establish basic protection around the place  then gather our students and meet in the Great Hall. Most must be evacuated  though if any of those who are over age wish to stay and fight  I think they ought to be given the chance. 
 Agreed   said Professor Sprout  already hurrying toward the door.  I shall meet you in the Great Hall in twenty minutes with my House.  And as she jogged out of sight  they could hear her muttering   Tentacula  Devil's Snare. And Snargaluff pods.yes  I'd like to see the Death Eaters fighting those. 
I can act from here   said Flitwick  and although he could barely see out of it  he pointed his wand through the smashed window and started muttering incantations of great complexity. Harry heard a weird rushing noise  as though Flitwick had unleashed the power of the wind into the grounds.
 Professor   Harry said  approaching the little Charms master.  Professor  I'm sorry to interrupt  but this is important. Have you got any idea where the diadem of Ravenclaw is.      Protego Horribillis   the diadem of Ravenclaw.  squeaked Flitwick.  A little extra wisdom never goes amiss  Potter  but I hardly think it would be much use in this situation. 
 I only meant     do you know where it is. Have you ever seen it.   Seen it  Nobody has seen it in living memory. Long since lost  boy.  Harry felt a mixture of desperate disappointment and panic. What  then  was the Horcrux.
 We shall meet you and your Ravenclaws in the Great Hall  Filius.  said Professor McGonagall  beckoning to Harry and Luna to follow her. They had just reached the door when Slughorn rumbled into speech.
 My word   he puffed  pale and sweaty  his walrus mustache aquiver.  What a to do. I'm not at all sure whether this is wise  Minerva. He is bound to find a way in  you know  and anyone who has tried to delay him will be in the most grievous peril    
 I shall expect you and the Slytherins in the Great Hall in twenty minutes also.  said Professor McGonagall.  If you wish to leave with your students  we shall not stop you. But if any of you attempt to sabotage our resistance or take up arms against us within this castle  then  Horace  we duel to kill.   Minerva.  he said  aghast.  The time has come for Slytherin House to decide upon its loyalties   interrupted Professor McGonagall.  Go and wake your students  Horace. 
Harry did not stay to watch Slughorn splutter. He and Luna stayed after Professor McGonagall  who had taken up a position in the middle of the corridor and raised her wand.  Piertotum   oh  for heaven's sake  Filch  not now    
The aged caretaker had just come hobbling into view  shouting  Students out of bed. Students in the corridors.   They're supposed to be you blithering idiot.  shouted McGonagall.  Now go and do something constructive. Find Peeves.  'P Peeves.  stammered Filch as though he had never heard the name before.
 Yes  Peeves  you fool  Peeves. Haven't you been complaining about him for a quarter of a century. Go and fetch him  at once. Filch evidently thought Professor McGonagall had taken leave of her senses  but hobbled away  hunch shouldered  muttering under his breath.
 And now   Piertotum Locomator.  cried Professor McGonagall. And all along the corridor the statues and suits of armor jumped down from their plinths  and from the echoing crashes from the floors above and below  Harry knew that their fellows throughout the castle had done the same.  Hogwarts is threatened.  shouted Professor McGonagall.  Man the boundaries  protect us  do your duty to our school. 
Clattering and yelling  the horde of moving statues stampeded past Harry  some of them smaller  others larger than life. There were animals too  and the clanking suits of armor brandished swords and spiked balls on chains.  Now  Potter   said McGonagall.   you and Miss Lovegood had better return to your friends and bring them to the Great Hall     I shall rouse the other Gryffindors. 
They parted at the top of the next staircase  Harry and Luna turning back toward the concealed entrance to the Room of Requirement. As they ran  they met crowds of
students  most wearing traveling cloaks over their pajamas  being shepherded down to the Great Hall by teachers and prefects.  That was Potter.   Harry Potter.   It was him  I swear  I just saw him. 
 But Harry did not look back  and at last they reached the entrance to the Room of Requirement  Harry leaned against the enchanted wall  which opened to admit them  and he and Luna sped back down the steep staircase.  Wh  . 
As the room came into view  Harry slipped down a few stairs in shock. It was packed  far more crowded than when he had last been in there. Kingsley and Lupin were looking up at him  as were Oliver Wood  Katie Bell  Angelina Johnson and Alicia Spinnet  Bill and Fleur  and Mr. and Mrs. Weasley.
 Harry  what's happening.  said Lupin  meeting him at the foot of the stairs.  Voldemort's on his way  they're barricading he school   Snape's run for it   What are you doing here. How did you know.
 We sent messages to the rest of Dumbledore's Army   Fred explained.  You couldn't expect everyone to miss the fun  Harry  and the D.A. let the Order of the Phoenix know  and it all kind of snowballed.   What first  Harry.  called George.  What's going on.   They're evacuating the younger kids and everyone's meeting in the Great Hall to get organized   Harry said.  We're fighting. 
There was a great roar and a surge toward the stairs  he was pressed back against he wall as they ran past hi  the mingled members of the Order of the Phoenix  Dumbledore's Army  and Harry's old Quidditch team  all with their wands drawn  heading up into the main castle.  Come on  Luna   Dean called as he passed  holding out his free hand  she took it and followed him back up the stairs.
The crowd was thinning. Only a little knot of people remained below in the Room of Requirement  and Harry joine3d them. Mrs. Weasley was struggling with Ginny. Around them stood Lupin  Fred  George  Bill and Fleur.
 You're underage.  Mrs. Weasley shouted at her daughter as Harry approached  I won't permit it. The boys  yes  but you  you've got to go home.   I won't.   Ginny's hair flew as she pulled her arm out of her mother's grip.  I'm in Dumbledore's Army      A teenagers' gang. 
 A teenagers' gang that's about to take him on  which no one else has dared to do.  said Fred.  She's sixteen.  shouted Mrs. Weasley.  She's not old enough. What you two were thinking bringing her with you    Fred and George looked slightly ashamed of themselves.
Mom's right  Ginny   said Bill gently.  You can't do this. Everyone underage will have to leave  it's only right.   I can't go home.  Ginny shouted  angry tears sparkling in her eyes.  my whole family's here  I can't stand waiting there alone and not knowing and    
Her eyes met Harry's for the first time. She looked at him beseechingly  but he shook his head and she turned away bitterly.  Fine   she said  staring at the entrance to the tunnel back to the Hog's Head.  I'll say good by now  then  and    
There was a scuffling and a great thump. Someone else had clambered out of the tunnel  overbalanced slightly  and fallen. He pulled himself up no the nearest chair  looked around through lopsided horn rimmed glasses  and said   Am I too late. Has it started. I only just found out  so I     I     
Percy spluttered into silence. Evidently he had not expected to run into most of his family. There was a long moment of astonishment  broken by Fleur turning to Lupin and saying  in a wildly transparent attempt to break the tension.  So    'ow eez leetle Teddy.  Lupin blinked at her  startled. The silence between the Weasleys seemed to be solidifying  like ice.
 I     oh yes    he's fine.  Lupin said loudly.  yes  Tonks is with him    at her mother's      Percy and the other Weasleys were still staring at one another  frozen.
 Here  I've got a picture.  Lupin shouted  pulling a photograph from inside his jacket and showing it to Fleur and Harry  who saw a tiny baby with a tuft of bright turquoise hair  waving fat fists at the camera.
 I was a fool.  Percy roared  so loudly that Lupin nearly dropped his photograph.  I was an idiot  I was a pompous prat  I was a   a      Ministry loving  family disowning  power hungry moron   said Fred. Percy swallowed.  Yes  I was.   Well  you can't say fairer than that   said Fred  holding his hand out to Percy.
Mrs. Weasley burst into tears . She ran forward  pushed Fred aside  and pulled Percy into a strangling hug  while he patted her on the back  his eyes on his father.  I'm sorry  Dad   Percy said. Mr. Weasley blinked rather rapidly  then he too hurried to hug his son.  What made you see sense  Perce.  inquired George.
 It's been coming on for a while   said Percy  mopping his eyes under his glasses with a corner of his traveling cloak.  But I had to find a way out and it's not so easy at the Ministry  they're imprisoning traitors all the time. I managed to make contact with Aberforth and he tipped me off ten minutes ago that Hogwarts was going to make a fight of it  so here I am. 
 Well  we do look to our prefects to take a lead at times such as these   said George in a good imitation of Percy's most pompous manner.  Now let's get upstairs and fight  or all the good Death Eaters'll be taken. 
 So  you're my sister in law now.  Said Percy  shaking hands with Fleur as they hurried off toward the staircase with Bill  Fred  and George.  Ginny.  barked Mrs. Weasley. Ginny had been attempting  under cover of the reconciliations to sneak upstairs too.
 Molly  how about this   said Lupin.  Why doesn't Ginny stay here   then at least she'll be on the scene and know what's going on  but she won't be in the middle of the fighting.   I      That's a good idea   said Mr. Weasley firmly    Ginny  you stay in this room  you hear me. 
Ginny did not seem to like the idea much  but under her father's unusually stern gaze  she nodded. Mr. and Mrs. Weasley and Lupin headed off to the stairs as well.  Where's Ron.  asked Harry   Where's Hermione. 
 They must have gone up the Great Hall already   Mr. Weasley called over his shoulder.   I didn't see them pass me   said Harry.  They said something about a bathroom   said Ginny   not long after you left. 
 A bathroom.  Harry strode across the room to an open door leading off the Room of Requirement and checked the bathroom beyond. It was empty.  You're sure they said bath   . 
But then his scar seared and the Room of Req1uirement vanished. He was looking through the high wrought iron gates with winged boats on pillars at either side  looking through the dark grounds toward the castle  which was ablaze with lights. Nagini lay draped over his shoulders. He was possessed of that cold  cruel sense of purpose that preceded murder. The Battle of Hogwarts
The enchanted ceiling of the Great Hall was dark and scattered with stars  and below it the four long House tables were lined with disheveled students  some in traveling cloaks  others in dressing gowns. Here and there shone the pearly white figures of the school ghosts. Every eye  living and dead was fixed upon Professor McGonagall  who was speaking from the raised platform at the top of the Hall. Behind her stood the remaining teaches  including the palomino centaur  Firenze  and the members of the Order of the Phoenix who had arrived to fight.
 .evacuation will be overseen by Mr. Filch and Madame Pomfrey. Prefects  when I give the word  you will organize your House and take your charges in orderly fashion to the evacuation point.
Many of the students looked petrified. However  as Harry skirted the walls  scanning the Gryffindor table for Ron and Hermione  Ernie Macmillan stood up at the Hufflepuff table and shouted;  And what if we want to stay and fight.  There was a smattering of applause.  If you are of age  you may stay.  said Professor McGonagall.
 What about our things.  called a girl at the Ravenclaw table.  Our trunks  our owls.   We have no time to collect possessions.  said Professor McGonagall.  The important thing is to get you out of here safely. 
 Where's Professor Snape.  shouted a girl from the Slytherin table.  He has  to use the common phrase  done a bunk.  replied Professor McGonagall and a great cheer erupted from the Gryffindors  Hufflepuffs  and Ravenclaws.
Harry moved up the Hall alongside the Gryffindor table  still looking for Ron and Hermione. As he passed  faces turned in his direction  and a great deal of whispering broke out in his wake.
 We have already placed protection around the castle   Professor McGonagall was saying   but it is unlikely to hold for very long unless we reinforce it. I must ask you  therefore  to move quickly and calmly  and do as your prefects   
But her final words were drowned as a different voice echoed throughout the Hall. It was high  cold  and clear. There was no telling from where it came. It seemed to issue from the walls themselves. Like the monster it had once commanded  it might have lain dormant there for centuries.
 I know that you are preparing to fight.  There were screams amongst the students  some of whom clutched each other  looking around in terror for the source of the sound.  Your efforts are futile. You cannot fight me. I do not want to kill you. I have great respect for the teachers of Hogwarts. I do not want to spill magical blood.  There was silence in the Hall now  the kind of silence that presses against the eardrums  that seems too huge to be contained by walls.
 Give me Harry Potter   said Voldemort's voice   and they shall not be harmed. Give me Harry Potter and I shall leave the school untouched. Give me Harry Potter and you will be rewarded.  You have until midnight. 
The silence swallowed them all again. Every head turned  every eye in the place seemed to have found Harry  to hold him forever in the glare of thousands of invisible beams. Then a figure rose from the Slytherin table and he recognized Pansy Parkinson as she raised a shaking arm and screamed   But he's there. Potter's there. Someone grab him. 
Before Harry could speak  there was a massive movement. The Gryffindors in front of him had risen and stood facing  not Harry  but the Slytherins. Then the Hufflepuffs stood  and almost at the same moment  the Ravenclaws  all of them with their backs to Harry  all of them looking toward Pansy instead  and Harry  awestruck and overwhelmed  saw wands emerging everywhere  pulled from beneath cloaks and from under sleeves.
 Thank you  Miss Parkinson.  said Professor McGonagall in a clipped voice.  You will leave the Hall first with Mr. Filch. If the rest of your House could follow.  Harry heard the grinding of the benches and then the sound of the Slytherins trooping out on the other side of the Hall.  Ravenclaws  follow on.  cried Professor McGonagall.
Slowly the four tables emptied. The Slytherin table was completely deserted  but a number of older Ravenclaws remained seated while their fellows filed out; even more Hufflepuffs stayed behind  and half of Gryffindor remained in their seats  necessitating Professor McGonagall's descent from the teachers' platform to chivvy the underage on their way.  Absolutely not  Creevey  go. And you  Peakes.  Harry hurried over to the Weasleys  all sitting together at the Gryffindor table.
 Where are Ron and Hermione.   Haven't you found  .  began Mr. Weasley  looking worried. But he broke off as Kingsley had stepped forward on the raised platform to address those who had remained behind.
 We've only got half an half an hour until midnight  so we need to act fast. A battle plan has been agreed between the teachers of Hogwarts and the Order of the Phoenix. Professors Flitwick  Sprout and McGonagall are going to take groups of fighters up to the three highest towers   Ravenclaw  Astronomy  and Gryffindor   where they'll have good overview  excellent positions from which to work spells. Meanwhile Remus    he indicated Lupin    Arthur    he pointed toward Mr. Weasley  sitting at the Gryffindor table    and I will take groups into the grounds. We'll need somebody to organize defense of the entrances or the passageways into the school     Sounds like a job for us.  called Fred  indicating himself and George  and Kingsley nodded his approval.  All right  leaders up here and we'll divide up the troops. 
 Potter   said Professor McGonagall  hurrying up to him  as students flooded the platform  jostling for position  receiving instructions   Aren't you supposed to be looking for something.   What. Oh   said Harry   oh yeah. 
He had almost forgotten about the Horcrux  almost forgotten that the battle was being fought so that he could search for it: The inexplicable absence of Ron and Hermione had momentarily driven every other thought from his mind.  Then go  Potter  go.   Right   yeah   
He sensed eyes following him as he ran out of the Great Hall again  into the entrance hall still crowded with evacuating students. He allowed himself to be swept up the marble staircase with them  but at the top he hurried off along a deserted corridor. Fear and panic were clouding his thought processes. He tried to calm himself  to concentrate on finding the Horcrux  but his thoughts buzzed as frantically and fruitlessly as wasps trapped beneath a glass. Without Ron and Hermione to help him he could not seem to marshal his ideas. He slowed down  coming to a halt halfway along a passage  where he sat down on the plinth of a departed statue and pulled the Marauder's Map out of the pouch around his neck. He could not see Ron's of Hermione's names anywhere on it  though the density of the crowd of dots now making its way to the Room of Requirement might  he thought  be concealing them. He put the map away  pressed his hands over his face  and closed his eyes  trying to concentrate. Voldemort thought I'd go to Ravenclaw Tower.
There it was  a solid fact  the place to start. Voldemort had stationed Alecto Carrow in the Ravenclaw common room  and there could be only one explanation; Voldemort feared that Harry already knew his Horcrux was connected to that House.
But the only object anyone seemed to associate with Ravenclaw was the lost diadem. and how could the Horcrux be the diadem. How was it possible that Voldemort  the Slytherin  had found the diadem that had eluded generations of Ravenclaws. Who could have told him where to look  when nobody had seen the diadem in living memory. In living memory.
Beneath his fingers  Harry's eyes flew open again. He leapt up from the plinth and tore back the way he had come  now in pursuit of his one last hope. The sound of hundreds of people marching toward the Room of Requirement grew louder and louder as he returned to the marble stairs. Prefects were shouting instructions  trying to keep track of the students in their own houses  there was much pushing and shouting; Harry
saw Zacharias Smith bowling over first years to get to the front of the queue  here and there younger students were in tears  while older ones called desperately for friends or siblings.
Harry caught sight of a pearly white figure drifting across the entrance hall below and yelled as loudly as he could over the clamor.  Nick. NICK. I need to talk to you. 
He forced his way back through the tide of students  finally reaching the bottom of the stairs  where Nearly Headless Nick  ghost of Gryffindor Tower  stood waiting for him.  Harry. My dear boy. 
Nick made to grasp Harry's hands with both of his own; Harry felt as though they had been thrust into icy water.  Nick  you've got to help me. Who's the ghost of Ravenclaw Tower. 
Nearly Headless Nick looked surprised and a little offended.  The Gray Lady  of course; but if it is ghostly services you require  .   It's got to be her   d'you know where she is.   Let's see. 
Nick's head wobbled a little on his ruff as he turned hither and thither  peering over the heads of the swarming students.  That's her over there  Harry  the young woman with the long hair. 
Harry looked in the direction of Nick's transparent  pointing finger and saw a tall ghost who caught sight of Harry looking at her  raised her eyebrows  and drifted away through a solid wall.
Harry ran after her. Once through the door of the corridor into which she had disappeared  he saw her at the very end of the passage  still gliding smoothly away from him.
 hey   wait   come back.  She consented to pause  floating a few inches from the ground. Harry supposed that she was beautiful  with her waist length hair and floor length cloak  but she also
looked haughty and proud. Close in  he recognized her as a ghost he had passed several times in the corridor  but to whom he had never spoken.  You're the Gray Lady.  She nodded but did not speak.  The ghost of Ravenclaw Tower.   That is correct.  Her tone was not encouraging.
 Please  I need some help. I need to know anything you can tell me about the lost diadem.  A cold smile curved her lips.  I am afraid   she said  turning to leave   that I cannot help you.   WAIT. 
He had not meant to shout  but anger and panic were threatening to overwhelm him. He glanced at his watch as she hovered in front of him. It was a quarter to midnight.  This is urgent.  he said fiercely.  If that diadem's at Hogwarts  I've got to find it  fast. 
 You are hardly the first student to covet the diadem.  she said disdainfully.  Generations of students have badgered me     This isn't about trying to get better marks.  Harry shouted at her   It's about Voldemort   defeating Voldemort   or aren't you interested in that. 
She could not blush  but her transparent cheeks became more opaque  and her voice was heated as she replied   Of course I   how dare you suggest  .   Well  help me then.  Her composure was slipping.
 It   it is not a question of    she stammered. My mother's diadem     Your mother's.  She looked angry with herself.  When I lived   she said stiffly   I was Helena Ravenclaw.   You're her daughter. But then  you must know what happed to it. 
 While the diadem bestows wisdom   she said with an obvious effort to pull herself together   I doubt that it would greatly increase you chances of defeating the wizard who calls himself Lord   
Haven't I told you  I'm not interested in wearing it.  Harry said fiercely.  There's no time to explain   but if you care about Hogwarts  if you want to see Voldemort finished  you've got to tell me anything you know about the diadem. 
She remained quite still  floating in midair  staring down at him  and a sense of hopelessness engulfed Harry. Of course  if she had known anything  she would have told Flitwick of Dumbledore  who had surely asked her the same question. He had shaken his head and made to turn away when she spoke in a low voice.  I stole the diadem from my mother.   You   you did what. 
 I stole the diadem.  repeated Helena Ravenclaw in a whisper.  I sought to make myself cleverer  more important than my mother. I ran away with it.  He did not know how he had managed to gain her confidence and did not ask  he simply listened  hard  as she went on.
 My mother  they say  never admitted that the diadem was gone  but pretended that she had it still. She concealed her loss  my dreadful betrayal  even from the other founders of Hogwarts.
 Then my mother fell ill   fatally ill. In spite of my perfidy  she was desperate to see me one more time. She sent a man who had long loved me  though I spurned his advances  to find me. She knew that he would not rest until he had done so.  Harry waited. She drew a deep breath and threw back her head.
 He tracked me to the forest where I was hiding. When I refused to return with him  he became violent. The baron was always a hot tempered man. Furious at my refusal  jealous of my freedom  he stabbed me.   The Baron. You mean  . 
 he Bloody Baron  yes   said the Gray Lady  and she lifted aside the cloak she wore to reveal a single dark wound in her white chest. When he saw what he had done  he was overcome with remorse. He took the weapon that had claimed my life  and used it to kill himself. All these centuries later  he wears his chains as an act of penitence . as he should.  she added bitterly.  And   and the diadem. 
 It remained where I had hidden it when I heard the Baron blundering through the forest toward me. Concealed inside a hollow tree.   A hollow tree.  repeated Harry.  What tree. Where was this.   A forest in Albania. A lonely place I thought was far beyond my mother's reach. 
 Albania   repeated Harry. Sense was emerging miraculously from confusion  and now he understood why she was telling him what she had denied Dumbledore and Flitwick.  You've already told someone this story  haven't you. Another student.  She closed her eyes and nodded.  I had. no idea. He was flattering. He seemed to. understand. to sympathize. 
Yes  Harry thought. Tom Riddle would certainly have understood Helena Ravenclaw's desire to possess fabulous objects to which she had little right.  Well  you weren't the first person Riddle wormed things out of.  Harry muttered.  He could be charming when he wanted. 
So  Voldemort had managed to wheedle the location of the lost diadem out of the Gray Lady. He had traveled to that far flung forest and retrieved the diadem from its hiding place  perhaps as soon as he left Hogwarts  before he even started work at Borgin and Burkes. And wouldn't those secluded Albanian woods have seemed an excellent refuge when  so much later  Voldemort and needed a place to lie low  undisturbed  for ten long years.
But the diadem  once it became his precious Horcrux  had not been left in that lowly tree. . . . No  the diadem had been returned secretly to its true home  and Voldemort must have put it there     the night he asked for a job.  said Harry  finishing his thought.  I beg your pardon. 
 He hid the diadem in the castle  the night he asked Dumbledore to let him teach.  said Harry. Saying it out loud enabled him to make sense of it all.  He must've hidden the diadem on his way up to  or down from  Dumbledore's office. But it was well worth trying to get the job   then he might've got the chance to nick Gryffindor's sword as well   thank you  thanks. 
Harry left her floating there  looking utterly bewildered. As he rounded the corner back into the entrance hall  he checked his watch. It was five minutes until midnight  and though he now knew what the last Horcrux was  he was no closer to discovering where it was. . .
Generations of students had failed to find the diadem; that suggested that it was not in Ravenclaw Tower   but if not there  where. What hiding place had Tom Riddle discovered inside Hogwarts Castle  that he believed would remain secret forever.
Lost in desperate speculation  Harry turned a corner  but he had taken only a few steps down the new corridor when the window to his left broke open with a deafening  shattering crash. As he leapt aside  a gigantic body flew in through the window and hit the opposite wall.
Something large and furry detached itself  whimpering  from the new arrival and flung itself at Harry.  Hagrid.  Harry bellowed  fighting off Fang the boarhound's attentions as the enormous bearded figure clambered to his feet  What the   .   Harry  yer here. Yer here. 
Hagrid stooped down  bestowed upon Harry a cursory and rib cracking hug  then ran back to the shattered window.  Good boy  Grawpy.  he bellowed through the hole in the window.  I'll se yer in a moment  there's a good lad. 
Beyond Hagrid  out in the dark night  Harry saw bursts of light in the distance and heard a weird  keening scream. He looked down at his watch: It was midnight. The battle had begun.  Blimey  Harry   panted Hagrid   this is it  eh. Time ter fight.   Hagrid  where have you come from. 
 Heard You Know Who from up in our cave   said Hagrid grimly.  Voice carried  didn't it. 'Yet got till midnight ter gimme Potter.' Knew yeh mus' be here  knew that mus' be happenin'. Get down  Fang. So we come ter join in  me an' Grawpy an' Fang. Smashed our way through the boundary by the forest  Grawpy was carryin' us  Fang an' me. Told him ter let me down at the castle  so he shoved me through the window  bless him. Not exactly what I meant  bu'   where's Ron an' Hermione.   That   said Harry   is a really good question. Come on. 
They hurried together along the corridor  Fang lolloping beside them. Harry could hear movement through the corridors all around: running footsteps  shouts; through the windows  he could see more flashes of light in the dark grounds.  Where're we goin'.  puffed Hagrid  pounding along at Harry's heels  making the floorboards quake.
 I dunno exactly   said Harry  making another random turn   but Ron and Hermione must be around here somewhere. . . .  The first casualties of the battle were already strewn across the passage ahead: The two stone gargoyles that usually guarded the entrance to the staffroom had been
smashed apart by a jinx that had sailed through another broken window. Their remains stirred feebly on the floor  and as Harry leapt over one of their disembodied heads  it moaned faintly.  Oh  don't mind me . . . I'll just be here and crumble. . . . 
Its ugly stone face made Harry think suddenly of the marble bust of Rowena Ravenclaw at Xenophilius's house  wearing that mad headdress   and then of the statue in Ravenclaw Tower  with the stone diadem upon her white curls. . . .
And as he reached the end of the passage  the memory of a third stone effigy came back to him: that of an ugly old warlock  onto whose head Harry himself had placed a wig and a battered old hat. The shock shot through Harry with the heat of firewhisky  and he nearly stumbled. He knew  at least  where the Horcrux sat waiting for him. . . .
Tom Riddle  who confided in no one and operated alone  might have been arrogant enough to assume that he  and only he  had penetrated the deepest mysteries of Hogwarts Castle. Of course  Dumbledore and Flitwick  those model pupils  had never set foot in that particular place  but he  Harry  had strayed off the beaten track in his time at school   here at least was a secret area he and Voldemort knew  that Dumbledore had never discovered  
He was roused by Professor Sprout  who was thundering past followed by Neville and half a dozen others  all of them wearing earmuffs and carrying what appeared to be large potted plants.  Mandrakes.  Neville bellowed at Harry over his shoulder as he ran.  Going to lob them over the walls   they won't like this. 
Harry knew now where to go. He sped off  with Hagrid and Fang galloping behind him. They passed portrait after portrait  and the painted figures raced alongside them  wizards and witches in ruffs and breeches  in armor and cloaks  cramming themselves into each others' canvases  screaming news from other parts of the castle. As they reached the end of this corridor  the whole castle shook  and Harry knew  as a gigantic vase blew off its plinth with explosive force  that it was in the grip of enchantments more sinister than those of the teachers and the Order.
 It's all righ'  Fang   it's all righ'.  yelled Hagrid  but the great boarhound had taken flight as slivers of china flew like shrapnel through the air  and Hagrid pounded off after the terrified dog  leaving Harry alone.
He forged on through the trembling passages  his wand at the ready  and for the length of one corridor the little painted knight  Sir Cadrigan  rushed from painting to painting beside him  clanking along in his armor  screaming encouragement  his fat little pony cantering behind him.  Braggarts and rogues  dogs and scoundrels  drive them out  Harry Potter  see them off. 
Harry hurtled around a corner and found Fred and a small knot of students  including Lee Jordan and Hannah Abbott  standing beside another empty plinth  whose statue had concealed a secret passageway. Their wands were drawn and they were listening at the concealed hole.
 Nice night for it.  Fred shouted as the castle quaked again  and Harry sprinted by  elated and terrified in equal measure. Along yet another corridor he dashed  and then there were owls everywhere  and Mrs. Norris was hissing and trying to bat them with her paws  no doubt to return them to their proper place. . . .
 Potter.  Aberforth Dumbledore stood blocking the corridor ahead  his wand held ready.  I've had hundreds of kids thundering through my pub  Potter.   I know  we're evacuating   Harry said   Voldemort's   
   attacking because they haven't handed you over  yeah   said Aberforth.  I'm not deaf  the whole of Hogsmeade heard him. And it never occurred to any of you to keep a few Slytherins hostage. There are kids of Death Eaters you've just sent to safety. Wouldn't it have been a bit smarter to keep 'em here.   It wouldn't stop Voldemort   said Harry   and your brother would never have done it.  Aberforth grunted and tore away in the opposite direction.
Your brother would never have done it. . . . Well  it was the truth  Harry thought as he ran on again: Dumbledore  who had defended Snape for so long  would never have held students ransom. . . .
And then he skidded around a final corner and with a yell of mingled relief and fury he saw them: Ron and Hermione; both with their arms full of large  curved  dirty yellow objects  Ron with a broomstick under his arms.  Where the hell have you been.  Harry shouted.  Chamber of Secrets   said Ron.  Chamber   what.  said Harry  coming to an unsteady halt before them.
 It was Ron  all Ron's idea.  said Hermione breathlessly.  Wasn't it absolutely brilliant. There we were  after we left  and I said to Ron  even if we find the other one  how are we going to get rid of it. We still hadn't got rid of the cup. And then he thought of it. The basilisk.   What the   . 
 Something to get rid of Horcruxes   said Ron simply. Harry's eyes dropped to the objects clutched in Ron and Hermione's arms: great curved fangs; torn  he now realized  from the skull of a dead basilisk.
 But how did you get in there.  he asked  staring from the fangs to Ron.  You need to speak Parseltongue.   He did.  whispered Hermione.  Show him  Ron.  Ron made a horrible strangled hissing noise.
 It's what you did to open the locket   he told Harry apologetically.  I had to have a few goes to get it right  but   he shrugged modestly   we got there in the end.   He was amazing.  said Hermione.  Amazing.   So . . .  Harry was struggling to keep up.  So . . . 
 So we're another Horcrux down   said Ron  and from under his jacket he pulled the mangled remains of Hufflepuff's cup.  Hermione stabbed it. Thought she should. She hasn't had the pleasure yet.   Genius.  yelled Harry.
 It was nothing   said Ron  though he looked delighted with himself.  So what's new with you.  As he said it  there was an explosion from overhead: All three of them looked up as dust fell from the ceiling and they heard a distant scream.
 I know what the diadem looks like  and I know where it is   said Harry  talking fast.  He hid it exactly where I had my old Potions book  where everyone's been hiding
stuff for centuries. He thought he was the only one to find it. Come on.  As the walls trembled again  he led the other two back through the concealed entrance and down the staircase into the Room of Requirement. It was empty except for three women: Ginny  Tonks and an elderly witch wearing a moth eaten hat  whom Harry recognized immediately as Neville's grandmother.  Ah  Potter   she said crisply as if she had been waiting for him.  You can tell us what's going on.   Is everyone okay.  said Ginny and Tonks together.
 'S far as we know   said Harry.  Are there still people in the passage to the Hog's Head.  He knew that the room would not be able to transform while there were still users inside it.
 I was the last to come through   said Mrs. Longbottom.  I sealed it  I think it unwise to leave it open now Aberforth has left his pub. Have you seen my grandson. 
 He's fighting   said Harry.  Naturally   said the old lady proudly.  Excuse me  I must go and assist him.  With surprising speed she trotted off toward the stone steps. Harry looked at Tonks.
 I thought you were supposed to be with Teddy at your mother's.   I couldn't stand not knowing    Tonks looked anguished.  She'll look after him   have you seen Remus.   He was planning to lead a group of fighters into the grounds    Without another word  Tonks sped off.
 Ginny   said Harry   I'm sorry  but we need you to leave too. Just for a bit. Then you can come back in.  Ginny looked simply delighted to leave her sanctuary.
 And then you can come back in.  he shouted after her as she ran up the steps after Tonks.  You've got to come back in.   Hang on a moment.  said Ron sharply.  We've forgotten someone.   Who.  asked Hermione.
 The house elves  they'll all be down in the kitchen  won't they.   You mean we ought to get them fighting.  asked Harry.  No   said Ron seriously   I mean we should tell them to get out. We don't want anymore Dobbies  do we. We can't order them to die for us   
There was a clatter as the basilisk fangs cascaded out of Hermione's arms. Running at Ron  she flung them around his neck and kissed him full on the mouth. Ron threw away the fangs and broomstick he was holding and responded with such enthusiasm that he lifted Hermione off her feet.
 Is this the moment.  Harry asked weakly  and when nothing happened except that Ron and Hermione gripped each other still more firmly and swayed on the spot  he raised his voice.  Oi. There's a war going on here.  Ron and Hermione broke apart  their arms still around each other.
 I know  mate   said Ron  who looked as though he had recently been hit on the back of the head with a Bludger   so it's now or never  isn't it. 
 Never mind that  what about the Horcrux.  Harry shouted.  D'you think you could just   just hold it in until we've got the diadem.   Yeah   right   sorry    said Ron  and he and Hermione set about gathering up fangs  both pink in the face.
It was clear  as the three of them stepped back into the corridor upstairs  that in the minutes that they had spent in the Room of Requirement the situation within the castle had deteriorated severely: The walls and ceiling were shaking worse than ever; dust filled the air  and through the nearest window  Harry saw bursts of green and red light so close to the foot of the castle that he knew the Death Eaters must be very near to entering the place. Looking down  Harry saw Grawp the giant meandering past  swinging what looked like a stone gargoyle torn from the roof and roaring his displeasure.  Let's hope he steps on some of them.  said Ron as more screams echoed from close by.
 As long as it's not any of our lot.  said a voice: Harry turned and saw Ginny and Tonks  both with their wands drawn at the next window  which was missing several panes. Even as he watched  Ginny sent a well aimed jinx into a crowd of fighters below.
 Good girl.  roared a figure running through the dust toward them  and Harry saw Aberforth again  his gray hair flying as he led a small group of students past.  They look like they might be breaching the north battlements  they've brought giants of their own.   Have you seen Remus.  Tonks called after him.
 He was dueling Dolohov   shouted Aberforth   haven't seen him since.   Tonks   said Ginny   Tonks  I'm sure he's okay    But Tonks had run off into the dust after Aberforth. Ginny turned  helpless  to Harry  Ron  and Hermione.
 They'll be all right   said Harry  though he knew they were empty words.  Ginny  we'll be back in a moment  just keep out of the way  keep safe   come on.  he said to Ron and Hermione  and they ran back to the stretch of wall beyond which the Room of Requirement was waiting to do the bidding of the next entrant. I need the place where everything is hidden. Harry begged of it inside his head  and the door materialized on their third run past.
The furor of the battle died the moment they crossed the threshold and closed the door behind them: All was silent. They were in a place the size of a cathedral with the appearance of a city  its towering walls built of objects hidden by thousands of long gone students.  And he never realized anyone could get in.  said Ron  his voice echoing in the silence.
 He thought he was the only one   said Harry.  Too bad for him I've had to hide stuff in my time . . . this way   he added.  I think it's down here. . . .  They sped off up adjacent aisles; Harry could hear the others' footsteps echoing through the towering piles of junk  of bottles  hats  crates  chairs  books  weapons  broomsticks  bats. . . .  Somewhere near here   Harry muttered to himself.  Somewhere . . . somewhere . . . 
Deeper and deeper into the labyrinth he went  looking for objects he recognized from his one previous trip into the room. His breath was loud in his ears  and then his very soul seemed to shiver. There it was  right ahead  the blistered old cupboard in which he had hidden his old Potions book  and on top of it  the pockmarked stone warlock wearing a dusty old wig and what looked like an ancient discolored tiara. He had already stretched out his hand  though he remained few feet away  when a voice behind him said   Hold it  Potter. 
He skidded to a halt and turned around. Crabbe and Goyle were standing behind him  shoulder to shoulder  wands pointing right at Harry. Through the small space between their jeering faces he saw Draco Malfoy.
 That's my wand you're holding  Potter   said Malfoy  pointing his own through the gap between Crabbe and Goyle.  Not anymore   panted Harry  tightening his grip on the hawthorn wand.  Winners  keepers  Malfoy. Who's lent you theirs.   My mother   said Draco.
Harry laughed  though there was nothing very humorous about the situation. He could not hear Ron or Hermione anymore. They seemed to have run out of earshot  searching for the diadem.  So how come you three aren't with Voldemort.  asked Harry.
 We're gonna be rewarded   said Crabbe. His voice was surprisingly soft for such an enormous person: Harry had hardly ever heard him speak before. Crabbe was speaking like a small child promised a large bag of sweets.  We 'ung back  Potter. We decided not to go. Decided to bring you to 'im. 
 Good plan   said Harry in mock admiration. He could not believe that he was this close  and was going to be thwarted by Malfoy  Crabbe  and Goyle. He began edging slowly backward toward the place where the Horcrux sat lopsided upon the bust. If he could just get his hands on it before the fight broke out . . .
 So how did you get in here.  he asked  trying to distract them.  I virtually lived in the Room of Hidden Things all last year   said Malfoy  his voice brittle.  I know how to get in. 
 We was hiding in the corridor outside   grunted Goyle.  We can do Diss lusion Charms now. And then   his face split into a gormless grin   you turned up right in front of us and said you was looking for a die dum. What's a die dum.   Harry.  Ron's voice echoed suddenly from the other side of the wall to Harry's right.  Are you talking to someone. 
With a whiplike movement  Crabbe pointed his wand at the fifty foot mountain of old furniture  of broken trunks  of old books and robes and unidentifiable junk  and shouted   Descendo.  The wall began to totter  then the top third crumbled into the aisle next door where Ron stood.
 Ron.  Harry bellowed  as somewhere out of sight Hermione screamed  and Harry heard innumerable objects crashing to the floor on the other side of the destabilized wall: He pointed his wand at the rampart  cried   Finite.  and it steadied.  No.  shouted Malfoy  staying Crabbe's arm as the latter made to repeat his spell.  If you wreck the room you might bury this diadem thing. 
 What's that matter.  said Crabbe  tugging himself free.  It's Potter the Dark Lord wants  who cares about a die dum.   Potter came in here to get it   said Malfoy with ill disguised impatience at the slow wittedness of his colleagues.  so that must mean   
 'Must mean'.  Crabbe turned on Malfoy with undisguised ferocity.  Who cares what you think. I don't take your orders no more  Draco. You an' your dad are finished.   Harry.  shouted Ron again  from the other side of the junk wad.  What's going on.   Harry.  mimicked Crabbe.  What's going on   no  Potter. Crucio. 
Harry had lunged for the tiara; Crabbe's curse missed him but hit the stone bust  which flew into the air; the diadem soared upward and then dropped out of sight in the mass of objects on which the bust had rested.  STOP.  Malfoy shouted at Crabbe  his voice echoing through the enormous room.  The Dark Lord wants him alive   
 So. I'm not killing him  am I.  yelled Crabbe  throwing off Malfoy's restraining arm.  But if I can  I will  the Dark Lord wants him dead anyway  what's the diff   . 
A jet of scarlet light shot past Harry by inches: Hermione had run around the corner behind him and sent a Stunning Spell straight at Crabbe's head. It only missed because Malfoy pulled him out of the way.  It's that Mudblood. Avada Kedavra. 
Harry saw Hermione dive aside  and his fury that Crabbe had aimed to kill wiped all else from his mind. He shot a Stunning Spell at Crabbe  who lurched out of the way  knocking Malfoy's wand out of his hand; it rolled out of sight beneath a mountain of broken furniture and bones.  Don't kill him. DON'T KILL HIM.  Malfoy yelled at Crabbe and Goyle  who were both aiming at Harry: Their split second's hesitation was all Harry needed.  Expelliarmus. 
Goyle's wand flew out of his hand and disappeared into the bulwark of objects beside him; Goyle leapt foolishly on the spot  trying to retrieve it; Malfoy jumped out of range of Hermione's second Stunning Spell  and Ron  appearing suddenly at the end of the aisle  shot a full Body Bind Curse at Crabbe  which narrowly missed.
Crabbe wheeled around and screamed   Avada Kedavra.  again. Ron leapt out of sight to avoid the jet of green light. The wand less Malfoy cowered behind a three legged wardrobe as Hermione charged toward them  hitting Goyle with a Stunning Spell as she came.
 It's somewhere here.  Harry yelled at her  pointing at the pile of junk into which the old tiara had fallen.  Look for it while I go and help R     HARRY.  she screamed.
A roaring  billowing noise behind him gave him a moment's warning. He turned and saw both Ron and Crabbe running as hard as they could up the aisle toward them.  Like it hot  scum.  roared Crabbe as he ran.
But he seemed to have no control over what he had done. Flames of abnormal size were pursuing them  licking up the sides of the junk bulwarks  which were crumbling to soot at their touch.  Aguamenti.  Harry bawled  but the jet of water that soared from the tip of his wand evaporated in the air.  RUN. 
Malfoy grabbed the Stunned Goyle and dragged him along; Crabbe outstripped all of them  now looking terrified; Harry  Ron  and Hermione pelted along in his wake  and the fire pursued them. It was not normal fire; Crabbe had used a curse of which Harry had no knowledge. As they turned a corner the flames chased them as though they were alive  sentient  intent upon killing them. Now the fire was mutating  forming a gigantic pack of
fiery beasts: Flaming serpents  chimaeras  and dragons rose and fell and rose again  and the detritus of centuries on which they were feeding was thrown up into the air into their fanged mouths  tossed high on clawed feet  before being consumed by the inferno.
Malfoy  Crabbe  and Goyle had vanished from view: Harry  Ron and Hermione stopped dead; the fiery monsters were circling them  drawing closer and closer  claws and horns and tails lashed  and the heat was solid as a wall around them.  What can we do.  Hermione screamed over the deafening roars of the fire.  What can we do.   Here. 
Harry seized a pair of heavy looking broomsticks from the nearest pile of junk and threw one to Ron  who pulled Hermione onto it behind him. Harry swung his leg over the second broom and  with hard kicks to the ground  they soared up in the air  missing by feet the horned beak of a flaming raptor that snapped its jaws at them. The smoke and heat were becoming overwhelming: Below them the cursed fire was consuming the contraband of generations of hunted students  the guilty outcomes of a thousand banned experiments  the secrets of the countless souls who had sought refuge in the room. Harry couldnot see a trace of Malfoy  Crabbe  or Goyle anywhere. He swooped as low as he dare over the marauding monsters of flame to try to find them  but there was nothing but fire: What a terrible way to die. . . . He had never wanted this. . . .
 Harry  let's get out  let's get out.  bellowed Ron  though it was impossible to see where the door was through the black smoke. And then Harry heard a thin  piteous human scream from amidst the terrible commotion  the thunder of devouring flame.
 It's   too   dangerous   .  Ron yelled  but Harry wheeled in the air. His glasses giving his eyes some small protection from the smoke  he raked the firestorm below  seeking a sign of life  a limb or a face that was not yet charred like wood. . . .
And he saw them: Malfoy with his arms around the unconscious Goyle  the pair of them perched on a fragile tower of charred desks  and Harry dived. Malfoy saw him coming and raised one arm  but even as Harry grasped it he knew at once that it was no good. Goyle was too heavy and Malfoy's hand  covered in sweat  slid instantly out of Harry's  
 IF WE DIE FOR THEM  I'LL KILL YOU  HARRY.  roared Ron's voice  and  as a great flaming chimaera bore down upon them  he and Hermione dragged Goyle onto their broom and rose  rolling and pitching  into the air once more as Malfoy clambered up behind Harry.
 The door  get to the door  the door.  screamed Malfoy in Harry's ear  and Harry sped up  following Ron  Hermione  and Goyle through the billowing black smoke  hardly able to breathe: and all around them the last few objects unburned by the devouring flames were flung into the air  as the creatures of the cursed fire cast them high in celebration: cups and shields  a sparkling necklace  and an old  discolored tiara  
 What are you doing  what are you doing  the door's that way.  screamed Malfoy  but Harry made a hairpin swerve and dived. The diadem seemed to fall in slow motion  turning and glittering as it dropped toward the maw of a yawning serpent  and then he had it  caught it around his wrist   Harry swerved again as the serpent lunged at him; he soared upward and straight toward the place where  he prayed  the door stood open; Ron  Hermione and Goyle had
vanished; Malfoy was screaming and holding Harry so tightly it hurt. Then  through the smoke  Harry saw a rectangular patch on the wall and steered the broom at it  and moments later clean air filled his lungs and they collided with the wall in the corridor beyond.
Malfoy fell off the broom and lay facedown  gasping  coughing  and retching. Harry rolled over and sat up: The door to the Room of Requirement had vanished  and Ron and Hermione sat panting on the floor beside Goyle  who was still unconscious.  C Crabbe   choked Malfoy as soon as he could speak.  C Crabbe . . .   He's dead   said Ron harshly.
There was silence  apart from panting and coughing. Then a number of huge bangs shook the castle  and a great cavalcade of transparent figures galloped past on horses  their heads screaming with bloodlust under their arms. Harry staggered to his feet when the Headless Hunt had passed and looked around: The battle was still going on all around him. He could hear more scream than those of the retreating ghosts. Panic flared within him.  Where's Ginny.  he said sharply.  She was here. She was supposed to be going back into the Room of Requirement. 
 Blimey  d'you reckon it'll still work after that fire.  asked Ron  but he too got to his feet  rubbing his chest and looking left and right.  Shall we split up and look   . 
 No   said Hermione  getting to her feet too. Malfoy and Goyle remained slumped hopelessly on the corridor floor; neither of them had wands.  Let's stick together. I say we go   Harry  what's that on your arm.   What. Oh yeah   
He pulled the diadem from his wrist and held it up. It was still hot  blackened with soot  but as he looked at it closely he was just able to make out the tiny words etched upon it; WIT BEYOND MEASURE IS MAN'S GREATEST TREASURE.
A bloodlike substance  dark and tarry  seemed to be leaking from the diadem. Suddenly Harry felt the thing vibrate violently  then break apart in his hands  and as it did so  he thought he heard the faintest  most distant scream of pain  echoing not from the grounds or the castle  but from the thing that had just fragmented in his fingers.  It must have been Fiendfyre.  whimpered Hermione  her eyes on the broken piece.  Sorry. 
 Fiendfyre   cursed fire   it's one of the substances that destroy Horcruxes  but I would never  ever have dared use it  it's so dangerous   how did Crabbe know how to   .   Must've learned from the Carrows   said Harry grimly.
 Shame he wasn't concentrating when they mentioned how to stop it  really   said Ron  whose hair  like Hermione's  was singed  and whose face was blackened.  If he hadn't tried to kill us all  I'd be quite sorry he was dead.   But don't you realize.  whispered Hermione.  This means  if we can just get the snake   
But she broke off as yells and shouts and the unmistakable noises of dueling filled the corridor. Harry looked around and his heart seemed to fail: Death Eaters had penetrated Hogwarts. Fred and Percy had just backed into view  both of them dueling masked and hooded men.
Harry  Ron  and Hermione ran forward to help: Jets of light flew in every direction and the man dueling Percy backed off  fast: Then his hood slipped and they saw a high forehead and streaked hair  
 Hello  Minister.  bellowed Percy  sending a neat jinx straight at Thicknesse  who dropped his wand and clawed at the front of his robes  apparently in awful discomfort.  Did I mention I'm resigning. 
 You're joking  Perce.  shouted Fred as the Death Eater he was battling collapsed under the weight of three separate Stunning Spells. Thicknesse had fallen to the ground with tiny spikes erupting all over him; he seemed to be turning into some form of sea urchin. Fred looked at Percy with glee.  You actually are joking  Perce. . . . I don't think I've heard you joke since you were   
The air exploded. They had been grouped together  Harry  Ron  Hermione  Fred  and Percy  the two Death Eaters at their feet  one Stunned  the other Transfigured; and in that fragment of a moment  when danger seemed temporarily at bay  the world was rent apart  Harry felt himself flying through the air  and all he could do was hold as tightly as possible to that thin stick of wood that was his one and only weapon  and shield his head in his arms: He heard the screams and yells of his companions without a hope of knowing what had happened to them  
And then the world resolved itself into pain and semidarkness: He was half buried in the wreckage of a corridor that had been subjected to a terrible attack. Cold air told him that the side of the castle had been blown away  and hot stickiness on his cheek told him that he was bleeding copiously. Then he heard a terrible cry that pulled at his insides  that expressed agony of a kind neither flame nor curse could cause  and he stood up  swaying  more frightened than he had been that day  more frightened  perhaps  than he had been in his life. . . .
And Hermione was struggling to her feet in the wreckage  and three redheaded men were grouped on the ground where the wall had blasted apart. Harry grabbed Hermione's hand as they staggered and stumbled over stone and wood.  No   no   no.  someone was shouting.  No. Fred. No. 
And Percy was shaking his brother  and Ron was kneeling beside them  and Fred's eyes stared without seeing  the ghost of his last laugh still etched upon his face. The Elder Wand
The world had ended  so why had the battle not ceased  the castle fallen silent in horror  and every combatant laid down their arms. Harry's mind was in free fall  spinning out of control  unable to grasp the impossibility  because Fred Weasley could not be dead  the evidence of all his senses must be lying   And then a body fell past the hole blown into the side of the
school and curses flew in at them from the darkness  hitting the wall behind their heads.  Get down.  Harry shouted  as more curses flew through the night: He and Ron had both grabbed Hermione and pulled her to the floor  but Percy lay across Fred's body  shielding it from further harrm  and when Harry shouted  Percy  come on  we've got to move.  he shook his head.  Percy.  Harry saw tear tracks streaking the grime coating ron's face as he sezied his elder brother's shoulders and pulled  but Percy would not budge.  Percy  you can't do anything for him. We're going to    Hermione screamed  and Harry  turning  did not need to ask why. A monstrous spider the size of a small car was trying to climb through the huge hole in the wall. one of Aragog's descendants had joined the fight. Ron and Harry shouted together; their spells collided and the monster was blown backward  its legs jerking horribly  and vanished into the darkness.  It brought friends.  Harry called to the others  glancing over the edge of the castle through the hole in the wall the curses had blasted. More giant spiders were climbing the side of the building  liberated from the Forbidden Forest  into which the Death Eaters must have penetrated. Harry fired Stunning Spells down upon them  knocking the lead monster into its fellows  so that they rolled back down the building and out of sight. Then more curses came soaring over Harry's head  so close he felt the force of them blow his hair.  Let's move  NOW.  Pushing Hermione ahead of him with ron  Harry stooped to seize Fred's body under the armpit. Percy  realizing what Harry was trying to do  stopped clinging to the body and helped: together  crouching low to avoid the curses flying at them from the grounds  they hauled Fred out of the way.  Here   said Harry  and they placed him in a niche where a suit of armor had stood earlier. He could not bear to look at Fred a second longer than he had to  and after making sure that the body was well  hidden  he took off after ron and Hermione. Malfoy and Goyle had vanished but at the end of the corridor  which was now full of dust and falling masonry  glass long gone from windows  he saw many people running backward and forward  whether friends or foes he could not tell. Rounding the corner  Percy let out a bull like roar:  ROOKWOOD.  and sprinted off in the direction of a tall man  who was pursuing a couple of students.  Harry  in here.  Hermione screamed. She had pulled Ron behind a tapestry. They seemed to be wrestling together  and for one mad second Harry thought that they were
embracing again; then hhe saw that Hermione was trying to restrain Ron  to stop him running after Percy.  Listen to me  LISTEN RON.   I wanna help  I wanna kill Death Eaters    His face was contorted  smeared with dust and smoke  and he was shaking with rage and grief.  ron  we're the only ones who can end it. Please  ron  we need the snake  we've got to kill the snake.  said Hermione. But Harry knew how Ron felt: Pursuing another Horcrux could not bring the satisfaction of revenge; he too wanted to fight  to punish them  the people who had killed Fred  and he wanted to find the other Weasleys  and above all make sure  make quite sure  that Ginny was not  but he could not permit that idea to form in his mind    We will fight.  Hermione said.  We'll have to  to reach the snake. But let's not lose sight now of what we're supposed to be d doing. We're the only ones who can end it.  She was crying too  and she wiped her face on her torn and singed sleeve as she spoke  but she took great heaving breaths to calm herself as  still keeping a tight hold on ron  she turned to Harry.  You need to find out where Voldemort is  because he'll have the snake with him  won't he. Do it  Harry  look inside him.  Why was it so easy. Because his scar had been burning for hours  yearning to show him Voldemort's thoughts. He closed his eyes on her command  and at once  the screams and bangs and all the discordant sounds of the battle were drowned until they became distant  as though he stood far  far away from them. He was standing in the middle of a desolate but strangely familiar room  with peeling paper on the walls and all the windows boarded up except for one. The sounds of the assault on the castle were muffled and distant. The single unblocked window revealed distant bursts of light where the castle stood  but inside the room was dark except for a solitary oil lamp. He was rolling his wand between his figners  watching it  his thoughts on the room in the castle  the secret room only he had ever found  the room  like the chamber  that you had to be clever and cunning and inquisitive to discover.He was confident that the boy would not find the diadem.although Dumbledore's puppet had come much farther than he ever expected.too far.  My Lord   said a voice  desperate and cracked. He turned: there was Lucius Malfoy sitting in the darkest corner  ragged and still bearing the marks of the punishment he had received after the boy's last escape. One of his eyes remained closed and puffy.  My Lord.please.my son.   If your son is dead  Lucius  it is not my fault. He did not come and join me  like the rest of the Slytherins. Perhaps he has
decided to befriend Harry Potter.   No  never   whispered Malfoy.  You must hope not.   Aren't  aren't you afraid  my Lord that Potter might die at another hand but yours.  asked Malfoy  his voice shaking.  Wouldn't it be.forgive me.more prudent to call off this battle  enter the castle  and seek him y yourself.   Do not pretend Lucius. You wish the battle to cease so that you can discover what has happened to your son. And i do not need to seek Potter. Before the night is out  Potter will have come to find me.  Voldemort dropped his gaze once more to the wand in his fingers. It troubled him.and those things that troubled Lord Voldemort needed to be rearranged.  Go and fetch Snape.   Snape  m my Lord.   Snape. Now. I need him. There is a   service  I require from him. Go.  Frightened  stumbling a little through the gloom  Lucius left the room. Vodlemort continued to stand there  twirling the wand between his fingers  staring at it.  It is the only way  Nagini   he whispered  and he looked around  and there was the great thick snake  now suspended in midair  twisting gracefully within the enchanted  protected space he had made for her  a starry  transparent sphere somewhere between a glittering cage and a tank. With a gasp  Harry pulled back and opened his yees at the same moment his ears were assaulted with the screeches and cries  the smashes and bangs of battle.  He's in the Shrieking Shack. The snake's with him  it's got some sort of magical protection around it. He's just sent Lucius Malfoy to find Snape.   voldemort's sitting in the shrieking Shack.  said Hermione  outraged.  He's not  he's not even FIGHTING.   He doesn't think he needs to fight   said Harry.  He thinks I'm going to go to him.   But why.   He knows I'm after Horcruxes  he's keeping Nagini close beside him   obviously I'm going to have to go to him to get near the thing     Right   said Ron  squaring his shoulders.  So you can't go  that's what he wants  what he's expecting. You stay here and look after Hermione  and I'll go and get it    Harry cut across Ron.  You two stay here  I'll go under the Cloak and I'll be back as soon as I     No   said Hermione    it makes much more sense if I take the Cloak
and     Don't even think about it   Ron snarled at her. before Hermione could get farther than  Ron  I'm just as capable      the tapestry at the top of the staircase on which they stood was ripped open.  POTTER.  Two masked Death Eaters stood there  but even before their wands were fully raised  Hermione shouted  Glisseo.  The stairs beneath their feet flatteneed into a chute and she  Harry  and Ron hurtled down it  unable to control their speed but so fast that the Death Eaters' Stunning Spells flew far over their heads. They shot through the concealing tapestry at the bottom and spun onto the floor  hitting the opposite wall.  Duro.  cried Hermione  pointing her wand at the tapestry  and there were two loud  sickening crunches as the tapestry turned to stone and the Death Eaters pursuing them crumpled against it.  Get back.  shouted Ron  and he  Harry  and Hermione hurled themselves against a door as a herd of galloping desks thundered past  shepherdd by a sprinting Professor McGonagall. She appeared not to notice them. Her hair had come down and there was a gash on her cheek. As she turned the corner  they heard her scream   CHARGE.   Harry  you get the Cloak on   said Hermione.  Never mind us    But he threw it over all three of them; large though they were he doubted anyone would see their disembodied feet through the dust that clogged the air  the falling stone  the shimmer of spells. they ran down the next staircase and found themselves in a corridor full of duelers. The portraits on either side of the fighters were crammed with figures screaming advice and encouragement  while Death Eaters  both masked and unmasked  dueled students and teachers. Dean had won himself a wand  for he was face to face with Dolohov  Parvati with Travers. Harry  ron and Hermione raised their wands at once  ready to strike  but the duelers were weaving and darting so much that there was a strong likelihood of hurting on of their own side if they cast curses. Even as they stood braced  looking for the opportunity to act  there came a great  Wheeeeee.  and looking up  Harry saw Peeves zoomign over them  dropping Snargaluff pods down onto the Death Eaters  whose heads were suddenly engulfed in wriggling green tubers like fat worms.  ARGH.  A fistful of tubers had hit the Cloak over Ron's head; the damp green roots were suspended improbably in midair as Ron tried to shake them loose.  Someone's invisible there.  shouted a masked Death Eater  pointing. Dean made the most of the Death Eater's momentary distraction  knocking him out with a stunning Spell; Dolohov attempted to
retaliate  and Parvati shot a Body Bind Curse at him.  LET'S GO.  Harry yelled  and he  Ron  and Hermione gathered the Cloak tightly around themselves and pelted  heads down  through the midst of the fighters  slipping a little in pools of Snargaluff juice  toward the top of the marble staircase into the entrance hall.  I'm Draco Malfoy  I'm Draco  I'm on your side.  Draco was on the upper landing  pleading with anoter masked Death Eater. Harry Stunned the Death Eater as they passed. Malfoy looked around  beaming  for his savior  and Ron punched him from under the Cloak. Malfoy fell backward on top of the Death Eater  his mouth bleeding  utterly bemused.  And that's the second time we've saved your life tonight  you two  faced bastard.  Ron yelled. There were more duelers all over the stairs and in the hall. Death Eaters everywhere Harry looked: Yaxley  close to the front doors  in combat with Flitwick  a masked Death Eater dueling Kingsley right beside them. Students ran in every direction; some carrying or dragging injured friends. Harry directed a Stunnning Spell toward the masked Death Eater; it missed but nearly hit Neville  who had emerged from nowhere brandishing armfuls of Venomous Tentacula  which looped itself happily around the nearest Death Eater and began reeling him in. Harry  Ron  and Hermione sped won the marble staircase: glass shattered on the left  and the Slytherin hourglass that had recorded House points spilled its emeralds everywhere  so that people slipped and staggered as they ran. Two bodies fell from the balcony overhead as they reached the ground a gray blur that Harry took for an animal sped four legged across the hall to sink its teeth into one of the fallen.  NO.  shrieked Hermione  and with a deafening blast from her wand  Fenrir Greyback was thrown backward from the feebly struggling body of Lavender Brown. He hit the marble banisters and struggled to return to his feet. Then  with a bright white flash and a crack  a crystal ball fell on top of his head  and he crumpled to the ground and did not move.  I have more.  shrieked Professor Trelawney from over the banisters.  More for any who want them. Here    And with a move likea tennis serve  she heaved another enormous crystal sphere from her bag  waved her wand through the air  and caused the ball to speed across the hall and smash through a window. At the same moment  the heavy wooden front doors burst open  and more of the gigantic spiders forced their way into the front hall. Screams of terror rent the air: the fighters scattered  Death Eaters and Hogwartians alike  and red and green jets of light flew
into the midst of the oncoming monsters  which shuddered and reared  more terrifying than ever.  How do we get out.  yelled ron over all the screaming  but before either Harry or Hermione could answer they were bowled aside; Hagrid had come thundering down the stairs  brandishing his flowery pink umbrella.  Don't hurt 'em  don't hurt 'em.  he yelled.  HAGRID  NO.  Harry forgot everything else: he sprinted out from under the cloak  running bent double to avoid the curses illuminating the whole hall.  HAGRID  COME BACK.  But he was not even halfway to Hagrid when he saw it happen: Hagrid vanished amongst the spiders  and with a great scurrying  a foul swarming movement  they retreated under the onslaught of spells  Hagrid buried in their midst.  HAGRID.  Harry heard someone calling his own name  whether friend or foe he did not care: He was springint down the front steps into the dark grounds  and the spiders were swarming away with their prey  and he could see nothing of Hagrid at all.  HAGRID.  He thought he could make out an enormous arm waving from the mdist of the spider swarm  but as he made to chase after them  his way was impeded by a monumental foot  which swung down out of the darkness and made the ground on which he stood shudder. He looked up: A giant stood before him  twenty feet high  its head ihidden in shadow  nothing but its treelike  hairy shins illuminated by light from the castle doors. With one brutal  fluid movement  it smashed a massive fist through an upper window  and glass rained down upon Harryk  forcing him back under the shelter of the doorway.  Oh my  .  shrieked Hermione  as she and ron caught up with Harry and gazed upward at the giant now trying to seize people through the window above.  DON'T.  ron yelled  grabbing Hermione's hand as she raised her wand.  Stun him and he'll crush half the castle     HAGGER.  Grawp came lurching around the corner of the castle; only dnow did Harry realzie that Grawp was  indeed  an undersized giant. The gargantuan monster trying to crush people on the upper floors turned around and let out a rorar. The stone steps tremebled as he stomped toward his smaller kin  and Grawp's lopsided mouth fell open  showing yellow  half brick sized teeth; and then they launched themselves at each other with the savagery of lions.  RUN.  Harry roared; the ngiht was full of hideous yells and blows as the giants wrestled  and he seized Hermione's hand and tore down the steps into the grounds  Ron bringing up the rear. Harry had not lost hope of finding and saving Hagrid; he ran so fast that they
were halfway toward the forest before they were brought up short again. The air around them had frozen: Harry's breath caught and solidified in his chest. Shapes moved out in the darkness  swirling figures of concentrated blackness  moving in a great wave towards the castles  their faces hooded and their breath rattling. ron and Hermione closed in beside him as the sounds of fighting behind them grew suddenly muted  deadened  because a silence only dementors could bring was falling thickly through the night  and Fred was gone  and Hagrid was suurely dying or already dead.  come on  Harry.  said Hermione's voice from a very long way away.  Patronuses  Harry  come on.  he raised his wand  but a dull hopelessness was spreading throughout him: How many more lay dead that he did not yet know about. He felt as though his soul had already half left his body..  HARRY  COME ON.  screamed Hermione. A hundred dementors were advancing  gliding toward them  sucking their way closer to Harry's despair  which was like a promise of a feast. He saw Ron's silver terrier burst into the air  flicker feebly  and expire; he saw Hermione's otter twist in midair and fade  and his own wand trembled in his hand  and he almost welcomed the oncoming oblivion  the promise of nothing  of no feeling. And then a silver hare  a boar  and fox soared past Harry  Ron  and Hermione's heads: the dementors fell back before the creatures' approach. Three more people had arrived out of the darkness to stand beside them  their wands outstretched  continuing to cast Patronuses: Luna  Ernie  and Seamus.  That's right   said Luna encouragingly  as if they were back in the Room of Requirement and this was simply spell practice for the D.A.   That's right  Harry.come on think of something happy.  'something happy.  he said  his voice cracked.  We're all still here   she whispered   we;re still fighting. Come on  now..  There was a silver spark  then a wavering light  and then  with the greatest effort it had ever cost him the stag burst from the end of Harry's wand. It cantered forward  and now the dementors scattered in earnest  and immediately the night was mild again  but the sounds of the surrounding battle were loud in his ears.  Can't thank you enough   said ron shakily  turning to Luna  Ernie  and Seamus  you just saved    With a roar and an earth quaking tremor  another giant came lurching out of the darkness from the direction of the forest  brandishing a club taller than any of them.  RUN.  Harry shouted again  but the others needed no telling; They all scattered  and not a second too soon  for the next moment the
creature's vast foot had fallen exactly where they had been standing. Harry looked round: ron and Hermione were following him  but the other three had vanished back into the battle.  Let's get out of range.  yelled Ron as the giant swung its club again and its bellows echoed through the night  across the grounds wehere bursts of red and green light continued to illuminate the darkness.  The Whomping willow   said Harry   go.  Somehow he walled it all up in his mind  crammed it into a small space into which he could not look now: thoughts of Fred and Hagrid  and his terror for all the people he loved  scattered in and outside the castle  must all wait  because they had to run  had to reach the snake and Voldemort  because that was  as Hermione said  the only way to end it   He sprinted  half believing he could outdistance death itself  ignoring the jets of light flying in the darkness all around him  and the sound of hte lake crashing like the sea  and the creaking of the Forbidden Forest though the night was windless; through grounds that seemed themselves to have risen in rebellion  he ran faster than he had ever moved in his life  and it was he who saw the great tree first  the Willow that protected the secret at its roots with whiplike  slashing branches. Panting and gasping  Harry slowed down  skirting the willow's swiping branches  peering through the darkness toward its tick trunk  trying to see the single knot in the bark of the old tree that would paralyze it. Ron and Hermione caught up  Hermione so out of breath that she could not speak.  How  how're we going to get in.  panted ron.  I can  see the palce   if we jsut had  Crookshanks again     Crookshanks.  wheezed Hermione  bent double  clutching her chest.  Are you a wizard  or what.   Oh  right  yeah    Ron looked around  then directed his wand at a twig on the ground and said  Winguardium Leviosa.  The twig flew up from the gruond  spun through the air as if caught by a gust of wind  then zoomed directly at the trunk through the Willow's ominously swaying branches. It jabbed at a place near the roots  and at once  the writhing tree became still.  Perfect.  panted Hermione.  Wait.  For one teetering second  while the crashes and booms of the battle filled the air  Harry hesitated. Voldemort wanted him to do this  wanted him to come.Was he leading Ron and Hermione into a trap. But the reality seemed to close upon him  cruel and plain: the only way forward was to kill the snake  and the snake was where Voldemort was  and voldemort was at the end of this tunnel.
 Harry  we're coming  just get in there.  said Ron  pushing him forward. Harry wriggled into the earthy passage hidden in the tree's roots. It was a much tighter squeeze than it had been the last time they had entered it. The tunnel was low ceilinged: they had had to double up to move throuhgh it nearly four years previously; now there was nothing for it but to crawl. Harry went first  his wand illuminated  expecting at any moment to meet barriers  but none came. They moved in silence  Harry's gaze fixed upon the swinging beam of the wand held in his fist. At last  the tunnel began to slope upward and Harry saw a sliver of light ahead. Hermione tugged at his ankle.  The Cloak.  she whispered.  Put the Cloak on.  He groped behind him and she forced the bundle of slippery cloth into his free hand. With difficulty he dragged it over himself  murmered   Nox   extinguishing his wandlight  and continued on his hands and knees  as silently as possible  all his senses straining  expecting every second to be discovered  to hear a cold clear voice  see a flash of green light. and then he heard voices coming from the room directly ahead of them  only slightly muffled by the fact that the opening at the endo fht etuunnel had been blocked up by what looked like an old crate. Hardly daring to breathe  Harry edged right up tot he opening and peered through a tiny gap left between crate and wall. The room beyond was dimly lit  but he could see Nagini  swirlign and coiling like a serpent underwater  safe in her enchanted  starry sphere  which floated unsupported in midair. He could see the edge of a table  and a long fingered white hand toying with a wand. Then Snape spoke  and Harry's heart lurched: Snape was inches away from where he crouched  hidden.  .my Lord  their resistance is crumbling       and it is doing so without your help   said Voldemort in his high  clear voice.  Skilled wizard though you are  Severus  I do not think you will make much difference now. We are almost there.almost.   Let me find the boy. Let me bring you Potter. I know I can find him  my Lord. Please.  Snape strode past the gap  and Harry drew back a little  keeping his eyes fixed upon Nagini  wondering whether there was any spell that might penetrate the protection surrounding her  but he could not think of anything. One failed attempt  and he would give away his position. Voldemort stood up. Harry could see him now  see the red eyes  the flattened  serpentine face  the pallor of him gleaming slightly in the semidarkness.
 I have a problem  Severus   said Voldemort softly.  My Lord.  said Snape. Voldemort raised the Elder Wand  holding it as delicately and precisely as a conductor's baton.  Why doesn't it work for me  Severus.  In the silence Harry imagined he could hear the snake hissing slightly as it coiled and uncoiled  or was it Voldemort's sibilant sigh lingering on the air.  My  my lord.  said Snape blankly.  I do not understand. You  you have performed extraordinary magic with that wand.   No   said Voldemort.  I have performed my usual magic. I am extraordinary  but this wand.no. It has not revealed the wonders it has promised. I feel no difference between this wand and the one I procured from Ollivander all those years ago.  Voldemort's tone was musing  calm  but Harry's scar had begun to throb and pulse: Pain was building in his forehead  and he could feel that controlled sense of fury building inside Voldemort.  No difference   said Voldemort again. Snape did not speak. Harry could not see his face. He wondered whether Snape sensed danger  was trying to find the right words to reassure his master. Voldemort started to move around the room: Harry lost sight of him for seconds as he prowled  speaking in that same measured voice  while the pain and fury mounted in Harry.  I have thought long and hard  Severus.do you know why I have called you back from battle.  And for a moment Harry saw Snape's profile. His eyes were fixed upon the coiling snake in its enchanted cage.  No  my Lord  but I beg you will let me return. Let me find Potter.   You sound like Lucius. Neither of you understands Potter as I do. He does not need finding. Potter will come to me. I knew his weakness you see  his one great flaw. He will hate watching the others struck down around him  knwoing that it is for him that it happens. He will want to stop it at any cost. He will come.   But my Lord  he might be killed accidentally by someone other than yourself     My instructions to the Death Eaters have been perfectly clear. Capture Potter. Kill his friends  the more  the better  but do not kill him.  But it is of you that I wished to speak  Severus  not Harry Potter. You have been very valuable to me. Very valuable.   My Lord knows I seek only to serve him. But  let me go and find the boy  my Lord. Let me bring him to you. I know I can     I have told you  no.  said Voldemort  and Harry caught the lgint of red in his eyes as he turned again  and the swishing of his cloak was like the slithering of a snake  and he felt Voldemort's
impatience in his burning scar.  My concern at the moment  Severus  is what will happen when I finally meet the boy.   My Lord  there can be no question  surely  .     but there is a question  Severus. There is.  Voldemort halted  and Harry could see him plainly again as he slid the Elder Wand through his white fingers  staring at Snape.  Why did both the wands I have used fail when directed at Harry Potter.   I  I cannot answer that  my Lord.   Can't you.  The stab of rage felt like a spike driven through Harry's head: he forced his own fist into his mouth to stop himself from crying out in pain. He closed his eyes  and suddenly he was Voldemort  looking into Snape's pale face.  My wand of yew did everything of which I asked it  Severus  except to kill Harry Potter. Twice it failed. Ollivander told me under torture of the twin cores  told me to take another's wand. I did so  but Lucius's wand shattered upon meeting Potter's.   I  I have no explanation  my Lord.  Snape was not looking at Voldemort now. His dark eyes were still fixed upon the coiling serpent in its protective sphere.  I sought a third wand  Severus. the Elder Wand  the Wand of Destiny  the Deathstick. I took it from its previous master. I took it from the grfave of Albus Dumbledore.  And now Snape looked at Voldemort  and Snape's face was like a death mask. it was marble white and so still that when he spoke  it was a shock to see that anyone lived behind the blank eyes.  My Lord  let me go to the boy     all this long night when I am on the brink of victory  I have sat here   said Voldemort  his voice barely louder than a whisper   wondering  wondering  why the Elder Wand refuses to be what it ought to be  refuses to perform as legend says it must perform for its rightful owner.and I think I have the answer.  Snape did not speak.  Perhaps you already know it. You are a clever man  after all  Severus. You have been a good and faithful servant  and I regret what must happen.   My Lord     The Elder Wand cannot serve me properly  Severus  because I am not its true master. The Elder Wand belongs to the wizard who killed its last owner. You killed Albus Dumbledore. While you live  Severus  the Elder Wand cannot truly be mine.   My Lord.  Snape protested  raising his wand.  It cannot be any other way   said Voldemort.  I must master the wand  Severus. Master the wand  and I master Potter at last.  And Voldemort swiped the air with the Elder Wand. It did nothing to
Sanpe  who for a split second seemed to think he had been reprieved: but then Voldemort's intention became clear. The snake's cage was rolling through the air  and before Snape could do anything more than yell  it had encased him  head and shoulders  and Voldemort spoke in Parseltongue.  Kill.  There was a terrible scream. Harry saw Snape's face losing the little color it had left; it whitened as his black eyes widened  as the snake's fangs pierced his neck  as he failed to push the enchanted cage off himself  as his knees gave way and he fell to the floor.  I regret it   said Voldemort coldly. He turned away; there was no sadness in him  no remorse. It was time to leave this shack and take charge  with a wand that would now do his full bidding. He pointed it at the starry cage holding the snake  which drifted upward  off snape  who fell sideways onto the floor  blood gushing from the wounds in his neck. Voldemort swept from the room without a backward glance  and the great serpent floated after him in its huge protective sphere. Back in the tunnel and his own mind  Harry opened his eyes; He had drawn blood biting down on his knuckles in an effort not to shout out. Now he was looking through the tiny crack between crate and wall  watching a foot in a black boot trembling on the floor.  Harry.  breathed Hermione behind him  but he had already pointed his wand at the crate blocking his view. It lifted an inch into the air and drifted sideways silently. As quietly as he could  he pulled himself up into the room. He did not know why he was doing it  why he was approaching the dying man: he did not know what he felt as he saw Snape's white face  adn the fingers trying to staunch the bloody wound at his neck. Harry took off the invisibility cloak and looked down upon the man he hated  whose widening black eyes found Harry as he cried to speak. Harry bent over him  and Snape seized the front of his robes and pulled him close. A terrible rasping  gurgling noise issued from Snape's throat.  Take.it.Take.it.  Something more than blood was leaking from Snape. Silvery blue  neither gas nor liquid  it gushed form his mouth and his ears and his eyes  and Harry knew what it was  but did not know what to do   A flask  conjured from thin air  was thrust into his shaking hand by Hermione. Harry lfited the silvery substance into it with his wand. When the falsk was full to the brim  and Snape looked as though there was no blood left in him  his grip on Harry's robes slackened.  Look.at..me.  he whispered. The green eyes found the black  but after a second  something in
the depths of the dark pari seemed to vanish  leaving them fixed  blank  and empty. The hand holding Harry thudded to the floor  and Snape moved no more. The Prince's Tale
Harry remained kneeling at Snape's side  simply staring down at him  until quite suddenly a high  cold voice spoke so close to them that Harry jumped on his feet  the flask gripped tightly in his hands  thinking that Voldemort had reentered the room.
Voldemort's voice reverberated from the walls and floor  and Harry realized that he was talking to Hogwarts and to all the surrounding area  that the residents of Hogsmeade and all those still fighting in the castle would hear him as clearly as if he stood beside them  his breath on the back of their necks  a deathblow away.  You have fought   said the high  cold voice   valiantly. Lord Voldemort knows how to value bravery.
 Yet you have sustained heavy losses. If you continue to resist me  you will all die  one by one. I do not wish this to happen. Every drop of magical blood spilled is a loss and a waste.  Lord Voldemort is merciful. I command my forces to retreat immediately.  You have one hour. Dispose of your dead with dignity. Treat your injured.
 I speak now  Harry Potter  directly to you. You have permitted your friends to die for you rather than face me yourself. I shall wait for one hour in the Forbidden Forest. If  at the end of that hour  you have not come to me  have not given yourself up  then battle recommences. This time  I shall enter the fray myself  Harry Potter  and I shall find you  and I shall punish every last man  woman  and child who has tried to conceal you from me. One hour.  Both Ron and Hermione shook their heads frantically  looking at Harry.  Don't listen to him   said Ron.
 It'll be all right   said Hermione wildly.  Let's   let's get back to the castle  if he's gone to the forest we'll need to think of a new plan    
She glanced at Snape's body  then hurried back to the tunnel entrance. Ron followed her. Harry gathered up the Invisibility Cloak  then looked down at Snape. He did not know what to feel  except shock at the way Snape had been killed  and the reason for which it had been done.
They crawled back through the tunnel  none of them talking  and Harry wondered whether Ron and Hermione could still hear Voldemort ringing in their heads as he could. You have permitted your friends to die for you rather than face me yourself. I shall wait for one hour in the Forbidden Forest.One hour.
Small bundles seemed to litter the lawn at the front of the castle  . . It could only be an hour or so from dawn  yet it was pitch black. The three of them hurried toward the stone steps. A lone dog  the size of a small boat  lay abandoned in front of them. There was no other sign of Grawp or of his attacker.
The castle was unnaturally silent. There were no flashes of light now  no bangs or screams or shouts. The flagstones of the deserted entrance hall were stained with blood. Emeralds were still scattered all over the floor  along with pieces of marble and splintered wood. Part of the banisters had been blown away.  Where is everyone.  whispered Hermione. Ron led the way to the Great Hall. Harry stopped in the doorway.
The House tables were gone and the room was crowded. The survivors stood in groups  their arms around each other's necks. The injured were being treated upon the raised platform by Madam Pomfrey and a group of helpers. Firenze was amongst the injured; his flank poured blood and he shook where he lay  unable to stand.
The dead lay in a row in the middle of the Hall. Harry could not see Fred's body  because his family surrounded him. George was kneeling at his head; Mrs. Weasley was lying across Fred's chest  her body shaking. Mr. Weasley stroking her hair while tears cascaded down his cheeks.
Without a word to Harry  Ron and Hermione walked away. Harry saw Hermione approach Ginny  whose face was swollen and blotchy  and hug her. Ron joined Bill  Fleur  and Percy  who flung an arm around Ron's shoulders. As Ginny and Hermione moved closer to the rest of the family  Harry had a clear view of the bodies lying next to Fred. Remus and Tonks  pale and still and peaceful looking  apparently asleep beneath the dark  enchanted ceiling.
The Great Hall seemed to fly away  become smaller  shrink  as Harry reeled backward from the doorway. He could not draw breath. He could not bear to look at any of the other bodies  to see who else had died for him. He could not bear to join the Weasleys  could not look into their eyes  when if he had given himself up in the first place  Fred might never have died.
He turned away and ran up the marble staircase. Lupin  Tonks. He yearned not to feel. He wished he could rip out his heart  his innards  everything that was screaming inside him.
The castle was completely empty; even the ghosts seemed to have joined the mass mourning in the Great Hall. Harry ran without stopping  clutching the crystal flask of Snape's last thoughts  and he did not slow down until he reached the stone gargoyle guarding the headmaster's office.  Password.   Dumbledore.  said Harry without thinking  because it was he whom he yearned to see  and to his surprise the gargoyle slid aside revealing the spiral staircase behind.
But when Harry burst into the circular office he found a change. The portraits that hung all around the walls were empty. Not a single headmaster or headmistress remained to see him; all  it seemed  had flitted away  charging through the paintings that lined the castle so that they could have a clear view of what was going on.
Harry glanced hopelessly at Dumbledore's deserted frame  which hung directly behind the headmaster's chair  then turned his back on it. The stone Pensieve lay in the cabinet where it had always been. Harry heaved it onto the desk and poured Snape's memories into the wide basin with its runic markings around the edge. To escape into someone else's head would be a blessed relief. Nothing that even Snape had left him could be worse than his own thoughts. The memories swirled  silver white and strange  and without hesitating  with a feeling of reckless abandonment  as though this would assuage his torturing grief  Harry dived.
He fell headlong into sunlight  and his feet found warm ground. When he straightened up  he saw that he was in a nearly deserted playground. A single huge chimney dominated the distant skyline. Two girls were swinging backward and forward  and a skinny boy was watching them from behind a clump of bushes. His black hair was overlong and his clothes were so mismatched that it looked deliberate: too short jeans  a shabby  overlarge coat that might have belonged to a grown man  an odd smocklike shirt.
Harry moved closer to the boy. Snape looked no more than nine or ten years old  sallow  small  stringy. There was undisguised greed in his thin face as he watched the younger of the two girls swinging higher and higher than her sister.  Lily  don't do it.  shrieked the elder of the two.
But the girl had let go of the swing at the very height of its arc and flown into the air  quite literally flown  launched herself skyward with a great shout of laughter  and instead of crumpling on the playground asphalt  she soared like a trapeze artist through the air  staying up far too long  landing far too lightly.  Mummy told you not to. 
Petunia stopped her swing by dragging the heels of her sandals on the ground  making a crunching  grinding sound  then leapt up  hands on hips.  Mummy said you weren't allowed  Lily.   But I'm fine   said Lily  still giggling.  Tuney  look at this. Watch what I can do. 
Petunia glanced around. The playground was deserted apart from themselves and  though the girls did not know it  Snape. Lily had picked up a fallen flower from the bush behind which Snape lurked. Petunia advanced  evidently torn between curiosity and disapproval. Lily waited until Petunia was near enough to have a clear view  then held out her palm. The flower sat there  opening and closing its petals  like some bizarre  many lipped oyster.  Stop it.  shrieked Petunia.  It's not hurting you   said Lily  but she closed her hand on the blossom and threw it back to the ground.
 It's not right   said Petunia  but her eyes had followed the flower's flight to the ground and lingered upon it.  How do you do it.  she added  and there was definite longing in her voice.
 It's obvious  isn't it.  Snape could no longer contain himself  but had jumped out from behind the bushes. Petunia shrieked and ran backward toward the swings  but Lily  though clearly startled  remained where she was. Snape seemed to regret his appearance. A dull flush of color mounted the sallow cheeks as he looked at Lily.  What's obvious.  asked Lily.
Snape had an air of nervous excitement. With a glance at the distant Petunia  now hovering beside the swings  he lowered his voice and said   I know what you are.   What do you mean. 
 You're.you're a witch   whispered Snape. She looked affronted.  That's not a very nice thing to say to somebody.  She turned  nose in the air  and marched off toward her sister.
 No.  said Snape. He was highly colored now  and Harry wondered why he did not take off the ridiculously large coat  unless it was because he did not want to reveal the smock beneath it. He flapped after the girls  looking ludicrously batlike  like his older self. The sisters considered him  united in disapproval  both holding on to one of the swing poles  as though it was the safe place in tag.
 You are   said Snape to Lily.  You are a witch. I've been watching you for a while. But there's nothing wrong with that. My mum's one  and I'm a wizard.  Petunia's laugh was like cold water.
 Wizard.  she shrieked  her courage returned now that she had recovered from the shock of his unexpected appearance.  I know who you are. You're that Snape boy. They live down Spinner's End by the river   she told Lily  and it was evident from her tone that she considered the address a poor recommendation.  Why have you been spying on us. 
 Haven't been spying   said Snape  hot and uncomfortable and dirty haired in the bright sunlight.  Wouldn't spy on you  anyway   he added spitefully   you're a Muggle.  Though Petunia evidently did not understand the word  she could hardly mistake the tone.
 Lily  come on  we're leaving.  she said shrilly. Lily obeyed her sister at once  glaring at Snape as she left. He stood watching them as they marched through the playground gate  and Harry  the only one left to observe him  recognized Snape's bitter disappointment  and understood that Snape had been planning this moment for a while  and that it had all gone wrong.
The scene dissolved  and before Harry knew it  re formed around him. He was now in a small thicket of trees. He could see a sunlit river glittering through their trunks. The shadows cast by the trees made a basin of cool green shade. Two children sat facing each other  cross legged on the ground. Snape had removed his coat now; his odd smock looked less pecular in the half light.  .and the Ministry can punish you if you do magic outside school  you get letters.   But I have done magic outside school. 
 We're all right. We haven't got wands yet. They let you off when you're a kid and you can't help it. But once you're eleven   he nodded importantly   and they start training you  then you've got to go careful. 
There was a little silence. Lily had picked up a fallen twig and twirled it in the air  and Harry knew that she was imagining sparks trailing from it. Then she dropped the twig  leaned in toward the boy  and said   It is real  isn't it. It's not a joke. Petunia says you're lying to me. Petunia says there isn't a Hogwarts. It is real  isn't it.   It's real for us   said Snape.  Not for her. But we'll get the letter  you and me.   Really.  whispered Lily.
 Definitely   said Snape  and even with his poorly cut hair and his odd clothes  he struck an oddly impressive figure sprawled in front of her  brimful of confidence in his destiny.  And will it really come by owl.  Lily whispered.
 Normally   said Snape.  But you're Muggle born  so someone from the school will have to come and explain to your parents.   Does it make a difference  being Muggle born.  Snape hesitated. His black eyes  eager in the greenish gloom  moved over the pale face  the dark red hair.
 No   he said.  It doesn't make any difference.   Good   said Lily  relaxing. It was clear that she had been worrying.  You've got loads of magic   said Snape.  I saw that. All the time I was watching you. 
His voice trailed away; she was not listening  but had stretched out on the leafy ground and was looking up at the canopy of leaves overhead. He watched her as greedily as he had watched her in the playground.  How are things at your house.  Lily asked. A little crease appeared between his eyes.  Fine   he said.  They're not arguing anymore. 
 Oh yes  they're arguing   said Snape. He picked up a fistful of leaves and began tearing them apart  apparently unaware of what he was doing.  But it won't be that long and I'll be gone.   Doesn't your dad like magic.   He doesn't like anything  much   said Snape.  Severus. 
A little smile twisted Snape's mouth when she said his name.  Yeah.   Tell me about the dementors again.   What d'you want to know about them for.   If I use magic outside school    
 They wouldn't give you to the dementors for that. Dementors are for people who do really bad stuff. They guard the wizard prison  Azkaban. You're not going to end up in Azkaban  you're too     He turned red again and shredded more leaves. Then a small rustling noise behind Harry made him turn: Petunia  hiding behind a tree  had lost her footing.
 Tuney.  said Lily  surprise and welcome in her voice  but Snape had jumped to his feet.  Who's spying now.  he shouted.  What d'you want.  Petunia was breathless  alarmed at being caught. Harry could see her struggling for something hurtful to say.
 What is that you're wearing  anyway.  she said  pointing at Snape's chest.  Your mum's blouse.  There was a crack. A branch over Petunia's head had fallen. Lily screamed. The branch caught Petunia on the shoulder  and she staggered backward and burst into tears.  Tuney. 
But Petunia was running away. Lily rounded on Snape.  Did you make that happen.   No.  He looked both defiant and scared.  You did.  She was backing away from him.  You did. You hurt her. 
 No   no  I didn't.  But the lie did not convince Lily. After one last burning look  she ran from the little thicket  off after her sister  and Snape looked miserable and confused.
And the scene re formed. Harry looked around. He was on platform nine and three quarters  and Snape stood beside him  slightly hunched  next to a thin  sallow faced  sour looking woman who greatly resembled him. Snape was staring at a family of four a short distance away. The two girls stood a little apart from their parents. Lily seemed to be pleading with her sister. Harry moved closer to listen.
 .I'm sorry  Tuney  I'm sorry. Listen     She caught her sister's hand and held tight to it  even though Petunia tried to pull it away.  Maybe once I'm there   no  listen  Tuney. Maybe once I'm there  I'll be able to go to Professor Dumbledore and persuade him to change his mind. 
 I don't   want   to   go.  said Petunia  and she dragged her hand back out of her sister's grasp.  You think I want to go to some stupid castle and learn to be a   a. 
Her pale eyes roved over the platform  over the cats mewling in their owners' arms  over the owls  fluttering and hooting at each other in cages  over the students  some already in their long black robes  loading trunks onto the scarlet steam engine or else greeting one another with glad cries after a summer apart.
    you think I want to be a   a freak.  Lily's eyes filled with tears as Petunia succeeded in tugging her hand away.  I'm not a freak   said Lily.  That's a horrible thing to say. 
 That's where you're going   said Petunia with relish.  A special school for freaks. You and that Snape boy.weirdos  that's what you two are. It's good you're being separated from normal people. It's for our safety. 
Lily glanced toward her parents  who were looking around the platform with an air of wholehearted enjoyment  drinking in the scene. Then she looked back at her sister  and her voice was low and fierce.
 You didn't think it was such a freak's school when you wrote to the headmaster and begged him to take you.  Petunia turned scarlet.  Beg. I didn't beg.   I saw his reply. It was very kind. 
 You shouldn't have read     whispered Petunia   that was my private   how could you   .  Lily gave herself away by half glancing toward where Snape stood nearby. Petunia gasped.  That boy found it. You and that boy have been sneaking in my room. 
 No   not sneaking     Now Lily was on the defensive.  Severus saw the envelope  and he couldn't believe a Muggle could have contacted Hogwarts  that's all. He says there must be wizards working undercover in the postal service who take care of    
 Apparently wizards poke their noses in everywhere.  said Petunia  now as pale as she had been flushed.  Freak.  she spat at her sister  and she flounced off to where her parents stood.
The scene dissolved again. Snape was hurrying along the corridor of the Hogwarts Express as it clattered through the countryside. He had already changed into his school robes  had perhaps taken the first opportunity to take off his dreadful Muggle clothes. At last he stopped  outside a compartment in which a group of rowdy boys were talking. Hunched in a corner seat beside the window was Lily  her face pressed against the windowpane.
Snape slid open the compartment door and sat down opposite Lily. She glanced at him and then looked back out of the window. She had been crying.  I don't want to talk to you   she said in a constricted voice.  Why not.   Tuney h hates me. Because we saw that letter from Dumbledore.   So what. 
She threw him a look of deep dislike.  So she's my sister.   She's only a     He caught himself quickly; Lily  too busy trying to wipe her eyes without being noticed  did not hear him.
 But we're going.  he said  unable to suppress the exhilaration in his voice.  This is it. We're off to Hogwarts.  She nodded  mopping her eyes  but in spite of herself  she half smiled.  You'd better be in Slytherin   said Snape  encouraged that she had brightened a little.  Slytherin. 
One of the boys sharing the compartment  who had shown no interest at all in Lily or Snape until that point  looked around at the word  and Harry  whose attention had been focused entirely on the two beside the window  saw his father: slight  black haired like Snape  but with that indefinable air of having been well cared for  even adored  that Snape so conspicuously lacked.
 Who wants to be in Slytherin. I think I'd leave  wouldn't you.  James asked the boy lounging on the seats opposite him  and with a jolt  Harry realized that it was Sirius. Sirius did not smile.  My whole family have been in Slytherin   he said.  Blimey   said James   and I thought you seemed all right.  Sirius grinned.
 Maybe I'll break the tradition. Where are you heading  if you've got the choice.  James lifted an invisible sword.  'Gryffindor  where dwell the brave at heart.' Like my dad.  Snape made a small  disparaging noise. James turned on him.
 Got a problem with that.   No   said Snape  though his slight sneer said otherwise.  If you'd rather be brawny than brainy      Where're you hoping to go  seeing as you're neither.  interjected Sirius.
James roared with laughter. Lily sat up  rather flushed  and looked from James to Sirius in dislike.  Come on  Severus  let's find another compartment.   Oooooo.  James and Sirius imitated her lofty voice; James tried to trip Snape as he passed.
 See ya  Snivellus.  a voice called  as the compartment door slammed. And the scene dissolved once more. Harry was standing right behind Snape as they faced the candlelit House tables  lined with rapt faces. Then Professor McGonagall said   Evans  Lily. 
He watched his mother walk forward on trembling legs and sit down upon the rickety stool. Professor McGonagall dropped the Sorting Hat onto her head  and barely a second after it had touched the dark red hair  the hat cried   Gryffindor. 
Harry heard Snape let out a tiny groan. Lily took off the hat  handed it back to Professor McGonagall  then hurried toward the cheering Gryffindors  but as she went she glanced back at Snape  and there was a sad little smile on her face. Harry saw Sirius move up the bench to make room for her. She took one look at him  seemed to recognize him from the train  folded her arms  and firmly turned her back on him.
The roll call continued. Harry watched Lupin  Pettigrew  and his father join Lily and Sirius at the Gryffindor table. At last  when only a dozen students remained to be sorted  Professor McGonagall called Snape. Harry walked with him to the stool  watched him place the hat upon his head.  Slytherin.  cried the Sorting Hat.
And Severus Snape moved off to the other side of the Hall  away from Lily  to where the Slytherins were cheering him  to where Lucius Malfoy  a prefect badge gleaming upon his chest  patted Snape on the back as he sat down beside him. And the scene changed.
Lily and Snape were walking across the castle courtyard  evidently arguing. Harry hurried to catch up with them  to listen in. As he reached them  he realized how much taller they both were. A few years seemed to have passed since their Sorting.  .thought we were supposed to be friends.  Snape was saying   Best friends. 
 We are  Sev  but I don't like some of the people you're hanging round with. I'm sorry  but I detest Avery and Mulciber. Mulciber. What do you see in him  Sev  he's creepy. D'you know what he tried to do to Mary Macdonald the other day. 
Lily had reached a pillar and leaned against it  looking up into the thin  sallow face.  That was nothing   said Snape.  It was a laugh  that's all      It was Dark Magic  and if you think that's funny    
 What about the stuff Potter and his mates get up to.  demanded Snape. His color rose again as he said it  unable  it seemed  to hold in his resentment.  What's Potter got to do with anything.  said Lily.
 They sneak out at night. There's something weird about that Lupin. Where does he keep going.   He's ill   said Lily.  They say he's ill      Every month at the full moon.  said Snape.
 I know your theory   said Lily  and she sounded cold.  Why are you so obsessed with them anyway. Why do you care what they're doing at night.   I'm just trying to show you they're not as wonderful as everyone seems to think they are.  The intensity of his gaze made her blush.
 They don't use Dark Magic  though.  She dropped her voice.  And you're being really ungrateful. I heard what happened the other night. You went sneaking down that tunnel by the Whomping Willow  and James Potter saved you from whatever's down there    
Snape's whole face contorted and he spluttered   Saved. Saved. You think he was playing the hero. He was saving his neck and his friends' too. You're not going to   I won't let you      Let me. Let me.  Lily's bright green eyes were slits. Snape backtracked at once.
 I didn't m ean   I just don't want to see you made a fool of   He fancies you  James Potter fancies you.  The words seemed wrenched from him against his will.  And he's not.everyone thinks.big Quidditch hero     Snape's bitterness and dislike were rendering him incoherent  and Lily's eyebrows were traveling farther and farther up her forehead.
 I know James Potter's an arrogant toerag   she said  cutting across Snape.  I don't need you to tell me that. But Mulciber's and Avery's idea of humor is just evil. Evil  Sev. I don't understand how you can be friends with them. 
Harry doubted that Snape had even heard her strictures on Mulciber and Avery. The moment she had insulted James Potter  his whole body had relaxed  and as they walked away there was a new spring in Snape's step. And the scene dissolved.
Harry watched again as Snape left the Great Hall after sitting his O.W.L. in Defense Against the Dark Arts  watched as he wandered away from the castle and strayed inadvertently close to the place beneath the beech tree where James  Sirius  Lupin  and Pettigrew sat together. But Harry kept his distance this time  because he knew what happened after James had hoisted Severus into the air and taunted him; he knew what had been done and said  and it gave him no pleasure to hear it again. He watched as Lily joined the group and went to Snape's defense. Distantly he heard Snape shout at her in his humiliation and his fury  the unforgivable word:  Mudblood.  The scene changed.  I'm sorry.   I'm not interested.   I'm sorry.   Save your breath 
It was nighttime. Lily  who was wearing a dressing gown  stood with her arms folded in front of the portrait of the Fat Lady  at the entrance to Gryffindor Tower.
 I only came out because Mary told me you were threatening to sleep here.   I was. I would have done. I never meant to call you Mudblood  it just    
 Slipped out.  There was no pity in Lily's voice.  It's too late. I've made excuses for you for years. None of my friends can understand why I even talk to you. You and your precious little Death Eater friends   you see  you don't even deny it. You don't even deny that's what you're all aiming to be. You can't wait to join You Know Who  can you.  He opened his mouth  but closed it without speaking.  I can't pretend anymore. You've chosen your way  I've chosen mine.   No   listen  I didn't mean    
    to call me Mudblood. But you call everyone of my birth Mudblood  Severus. Why should I be any different.  He struggled on the verge of speech  but with a contemptuous look she turned and climbed back through the portrait hole.
The corridor dissolved  and the scene took a little longer to reform: Harry seemed to fly through shifting shapes and colors until his surroundings solidified again and he stood on a hilltop  forlorn and cold in the darkness  the wind whistling through the branches of a few leafless trees. The adult Snape was panting  turning on the spot  his wand gripped tightly in his hand  waiting for something or for someone. His fear infected Harry too  even though he knew that he could not be harmed  and he looked over his shoulder  wondering what it was that Snape was waiting for  
Then a blinding  jagged jet of white light flew through the air. Harry thought of lightning  but Snape had dropped to his knees and his wand had flown out of his hand.  Don't kill me.   That was not my intention. 
Any sound of Dumbledore Apparating had been drowned by the sound of the wind in the branches. He stood before Snape with his robes whipping around him  and his face was illuminated from below in the light cast by his wand.  Well  Severus. What message does Lord Voldemort have for me.   No   no message   I'm here on my own account. 
Snape was wringing his hands. He looked a little mad  with his straggling black hair flying around him.  I   I come with a warning   no  a request   please    
Dumbledore flicked his wand. Though leaves and branches still flew through the night air around them  silence fell on the spot where he and Snape faced each other.  What request could a Death Eater make of me.   The   the prophecy.the prediction.Trelawney. 
 Ah  yes   said Dumbledore.  How much did you relay to Lord Voldemort.   Everything   everything I heard.  said Snape.  That is why   it is for that reason   he thinks it means Lily Evans. 
 The prophecy did not refer to a woman   said Dumbledore.  It spoke of a boy born at the end of July      You know what I mean. He thinks it means her son  he is going to hunt her down   kill them all    
 If she means so much to you   said Dumbledore   surely Lord Voldemort will spare her. Could you not ask for mercy for the mother  in exchange for the son.   I have   I have asked him    
 You disgust me   said Dumbledore  and Harry had never heard so much contempt in his voice. Snape seemed to shrink a little   You do not care  then  about the deaths of her husband and child. They can die  as long as you have what you want.  Snape said nothing  but merely looked up at Dumbledore.  Hide them all  then   he croaked.  Keep her   them   safe. Please. 
 And what will you give me in return  Severus.   In   in return.  Snape gaped at Dumbledore  and Harry expected him to protest  but after a long moment he said   Anything. 
The hilltop faded  and Harry stood in Dumbledore's office  and something was making a terrible sound  like a wounded animal. Snape was slumped forward in a chair and Dumbledore was standing over him  looking grim. After a moment or two  Snape raised his face  and he looked like a man who had lived a hundred years of misery since leaving the wild hilltop.  I thought.you were going.to keep her.safe. 
 She and James put their faith in the wrong person   said Dumbledore.  Rather like you  Severus. Weren't you hoping that Lord Voldemort would spare her.  Snape's breathing was shallow.  Her boy survives   said Dumbledore. With a tiny jerk of the head  Snape seemed to flick off an irksome fly.
 Her son lives. He has her eyes  precisely her eyes. You remember the shape and color of Lily Evans's eyes  I am sure.   DON'T.  bellowed Snape.  Gone.dead.   Is this remorse  Severus.   I wish.I wish I were dead. 
 And what use would that be to anyone.  said Dumbledore coldly.  If you loved Lily Evans  if you truly loved her  then your way forward is clear.  Snape seemed to peer through a haze of pain  and Dumbledore's words appeared to take a long time to reach him.  What   what do you mean. 
 You know how and why she died. Make sure it was not in vain. Help me protect Lily's son.   He does not need protection. The Dark Lord has gone      The Dark Lord will return  and Harry Potter will be in terrible danger when he does. 
There was a long pause  and slowly Snape regained control of himself  mastered his own breathing. At last he said   Very well. Very well. But never   never tell  Dumbledore. This must be between us. Swear it. I cannot bear.especially Potter's son.I want your word.   My word  Severus  that I shall never reveal the best of you.  Dumbledore sighed  looking down into Snape's ferocious  anguished face.  If you insist. 
The office dissolved but re formed instantly. Snape was pacing up and down in front of Dumbledore.     mediocre  arrogant as his father  a determined rule breaker  delighted to find himself famous  attention seeking and impertinent    
 You see what you expect to see  Severus   said Dumbledore  without raising his eyes from a copy of Transfiguration Today.  Other teachers report that the boy is modest  likable  and reasonably talented. Personally  I find him an engaging child.  Dumbledore turned a page  and said  without looking up   Keep an eye on Quirrell  won't you. 
A whirl of color  and now everything darkened  and Snape and Dumbledore stood a little apart in the entrance hall  while the last stragglers from the Yule Ball passed them on their way to bed.  Well.  murmured Dumbledore.
 Karkaroff's Mark is becoming darker too. He is panicking  he fears retribution; you know how much help he gave the Ministry after the Dark Lord fell.  Snape looked sideways at Dumbledore's crooked nosed profile.  Karkaroff intends to flee if the Mark burns.   Does he.  said Dumbledore softly  as Fleur Delacour and Roger Davies came giggling in from the grounds.  And are you tempted to join him. 
 No   said Snape  his black eyes on Fleur's and Roger's retreating figures.  I am not such a coward.   No   agreed Dumbledore.  You are a braver man by far than Igor Karkaroff. You know  I sometimes think we Sort too soon.  He walked away  leaving Snape looking stricken.
And now Harry stood in the headmaster's office yet again. It was nighttime  and Dumbledore sagged sideways in the thronelike chair behind the desk  apparently semiconscious. His right hand dangled over the side  blackened and burned. Snape was muttering incantations  pointing his wand at the wrist of the hand  while with his left hand he tipped a goblet full of thick golden potion down Dumbledore's throat. After a moment or two  Dumbledore's eyelids fluttered and opened.  Why   said Snape  without preamble   why did you put on that ring. It carries a curse  surely you realized that. Why even touch it. 
Marvolo Gaunt's ring lay on the desk before Dumbledore. It was cracked; the sword of Gryffindor lay beside it. Dumbledore grimaced.  I.was a fool. Sorely tempted.   Tempted by what.  Dumbledore did not answer.
 It is a miracle you managed to return here.  Snape sounded furious.  That ring carried a curse of extraordinary power  to contain it is all we can hope for; I have trapped the curse in one hand for the time being    
Dumbledore raised his blackened  useless hand  and examined it with the expression of one being shown an interesting curio.  You have done very well  Severus. How long do you think I have. 
Dumbledore's tone was conversational; he might have been asking for a weather forecast. Snape hesitated  and then said   I cannot tell. Maybe a year. There is no halting such a spell forever. It will spread eventually  it is the sort of curse that strengthens over time. 
Dumbledore smiled. The news that he had less than a year to live seemed a matter of little or no concern to him.  I am fortunate  extremely fortunate  that I have you  Severus. 
 If you had only summoned me a little earlier  I might have been able to do more  buy you more time.  said Snape furiously. He looked down at the broken ring and the sword.  Did you think that breaking the ring would break the curse. 
 Something like that.I was delirious  no doubt.  said Dumbledore. With an effort he straightened himself in his chair.  Well  really  this makes matters much more straightforward.  Snape looked utterly perplexed. Dumbledore smiled.  I refer to the plan Lord Voldemort is revolving around me. His plan to have the poor Malfoy boy murder me. 
Snape sat down in the chair Harry had so often occupied  across the desk from Dumbledore. Harry could tell that he wanted to say more on the subject of Dumbledore's cursed hand  but the other held it up in polite refusal to discuss the matter further. Scowling  Snape said   The Dark Lord does not expect Draco to succeed. This is merely punishment for Lucius's recent failures. Slow torture for Draco's parents  while they watch him fail and pay the price. 
 In short  the boy has had a death sentence pronounced upon him as surely as I have   said Dumbledore.  Now  I should have thought the natural successor to the job  once Draco fails  is yourself.  There was a short pause.
 That  I think  is the Dark Lord's plan.   Lord Voldemort foresees a moment in the near future when he will not need a spy at Hogwarts.   He believes the school will soon be in his grasp  yes. 
 And if it does fall into his grasp   said Dumbledore  almost  it seemed  as an aside   I have your word that you will do all in your power to protect the students at Hogwarts.  Snape gave a stiff nod.
 Good. Now then. Your first priority will be to discover what Draco is up to. A frightened teenage boy is a danger to others as well as to himself. Offer him help and guidance  he ought to accept  he likes you         much less since his father has lost favor. Draco blames me  he thinks I have usurped Lucius's position. 
 All the same  try. I am concerned less for myself than for accidental victims of whatever schemes might occur to the boy. Ultimately  of course  there is only one thing to be done if we are to save him from Lord Voldemort's wrath.  Snape raised his eyebrows and his tone was sardonic as he asked   Are you intending to let him kill you.   Certainly not. You must kill me. 
There was a long silence  broken only by an odd clicking noise. Fawkes the phoenix was gnawing a bit of cuttlebone.  Would you like me to do it now.  asked Snape  his voice heavy with irony.  Or would you like a few moments to compose an epitaph. 
 Oh  not quite yet   said Dumbledore  smiling.  I daresay the moment will present itself in due course. Given what has happened tonight   he indicated his withered hand   we can be sure that it will happen within a year. 
 If you don't mind dying   said Snape roughly   why not let Draco do it.   That boy's soul is not yet so damaged   said Dumbledore.  I would not have it ripped apart on my account.   And my soul  Dumbledore. Mine. 
 You alone know whether it will harm your soul to help an old man avoid pain and humiliation   said Dumbledore.  I ask this one great favor of you  Severus  because death is coming for me as surely as the Chudley Cannons will finish bottom of this year's league. I confess I should prefer a quick  painless exit to the protracted and messy affair it will be if  for instance  Greyback is involved   I hear Voldemort has recruited him. Or dear Bellatrix  who likes to play with her food before she eats it. 
His tone was light  but his blue eyes pierced Snape as they had frequently pierced Harry  as though the soul they discussed was visible to him. At last Snape gave another curt nod. Dumbledore seemed satisfied.  Thank you  Severus. 
The office disappeared  and now Snape and Dumbledore were strolling together in the deserted castle grounds by twilight.  What are you doing with Potter  all these evenings you are closeted together.  Snape asked abruptly. Dumbledore looked weary.
 Why. You aren't trying to give him more detentions  Severus. The boy will soon have spent more time in detention than out.   He is his father over again    
 In looks  perhaps  but his deepest nature is much more like his mother's. I spend time with Harry because I have things to discuss with him  information I must give him before it is too late.   Information   repeated Snape.  You trust him.you do not trust me. 
 It is not a question of trust. I have  as we both know  limited time. It is essential that I give the boy enough information for him to do what he needs to do.   And why may I not have the same information. 
 I prefer not to put all of my secrets in one basket  particularly not a basket that spends so much time dangling on the arm of Lord Voldemort.   Which I do on your orders. 
 And you do it extremely well. Do not think that I underestimate the constant danger in which you place yourself  Severus. To give Voldemort what appears to be valuable information while withholding the essentials is a job I would entrust to nobody but you.   Yet you confide much more in a boy who is incapable of Occlumency  whose magic is mediocre  and who has a direct connection into the Dark Lord's mind. 
 Voldemort fears that connection   said Dumbledore.  Not so long ago he had one small taste of what truly sharing Harry's mind means to him. It was pain such as he has never experienced. He will not try to possess Harry again  I am sure of it. Not in that way.   I don't understand. 
 Lord Voldemort's soul  maimed as it is  cannot bear close contact with a soul like Harry's. Like a tongue on frozen steel  like flesh in flame      Souls. We were talking of minds.   In the case of Harry and Lord Voldemort  to speak of one is to speak of the other. 
Dumbledore glanced around to make sure that they were alone. They were close by the Forbidden Forest now  but there was no sign of anyone near them.  After you have killed me  Severus    
 You refuse to tell me everything  yet you expect that small service of me.  snarled Snape  and real anger flared in the thin face now.  You take a great deal for granted  Dumbledore. Perhaps I have changed my mind. 
 You gave me your word  Severus. And while we are talking about services you owe me  I thought you agreed to keep a close eye on our young Slytherin friend.  Snape looked angry  mutinous. Dumbledore sighed.
 Come to my office tonight  Severus  at eleven  and you shall not complain that I have no confidence in you.  They were back in Dumbledore's office  the windows dark  and Fawkes sat silent as Snape sat quite still  as Dumbledore walked around him  talking.
 Harry must not know  not until the last moment  not until it is necessary  otherwise how could he have the strength to do what must be done.   But what must he do. 
 That is between Harry and me. Now listen closely  Severus. There will come a time   after my death   do not argue  do not interrupt. There will come a time when Lord Voldemort will seem to fear for the life of his snake.   For Nagini.  Snape looked astonished.
 Precisely. If there comes a time when Lord Voldemort stops sending that snake forth to do his bidding  but keeps it safe beside him under magical protection  then  I think  it will be safe to tell Harry.   Tell him what.  Dumbledore took a deep breath and closed his eyes.
 Tell him that on the night Lord Voldemort tried to kill him  when Lily cast her own life between them as a shield  the Killing Curse rebounded upon Lord Voldemort  and a fragment of Voldemort's soul was blasted apart from the whole  and latched itself onto the only living soul left in that collapsed building. Part of Lord Voldemort lives inside Harry  and it is that which gives him the power of speech with snakes  and a connection with Lord Voldemort's mind that he has never understood. And while that fragment of soul  unmissed by Voldemort  remains attached to and protected by Harry  Lord Voldemort cannot die.  Harry seemed to be watching the two men from one end of a long tunnel  they were so far away from him  their voices echoing strangely in his ears.
 So the boy.the boy must die.  asked Snape quite calmly.  And Voldemort himself must do it  Severus. That is essential.  Another long silence. Then Snape said   I thought.all those years.that we were protecting him for her. For Lily. 
 We have protected him because it has been essential to teach him  to raise him  to let him try his strength   said Dumbledore  his eyes still tight shut.  Meanwhile  the connection between them grows ever stronger  a parasitic growth. Sometimes I have thought he suspects it himself. If I know him  he will have arranged matters so that when he does set out to meet his death  it will truly mean the end of Voldemort.  Dumbledore opened his eyes. Snape looked horrified.  You have kept him alive so that he can die at the right moment. 
 Don't be shocked  Severus. How many men and women have you watched die.   Lately  only those whom I could not save   said Snape. He stood up.  You have used me.   Meaning. 
 I have spied for you and lied for you  put myself in mortal danger for you. Everything was supposed to be to keep Lily Potter's son safe. Now you tell me you have been raising him like a pig for slaughter      But this is touching  Severus   said Dumbledore seriously.  Have you grown to care for the boy  after all.   For him.  shouted Snape.  Expecto Patronum. 
From the tip of his wand burst the silver doe. She landed on the office floor  bounded once across the office  and soared out of the window. Dumbledore watched her fly away  and as her silvery glow faded he turned back to Snape  and his eyes were full of tears.  After all this time.   Always   said Snape. And the scene shifted. Now  Harry saw Snape talking to the portrait of Dumbledore behind his desk.
 You will have to give Voldemort the correct date of Harry's departure from his aunt and uncle's   said Dumbledore.  Not to do so will raise suspicion  when Voldemort believes you so well informed. However  you must plant the idea of decoys; that  I think  ought to ensure Harry's safety. Try Confunding Mundungus Fletcher. And Severus  if you are forced to take part in the chase  be sure to act your part convincingly.I am counting upon you to remain in Lord Voldemort's good books as long as possible  or Hogwarts will be left to the mercy of the Carrows.  Now Snape was head to head with Mundungus in an unfamiliar tavern  Mundungus's face looking curiously blank  Snape frowning in concentration.
 You will suggest to the Order of the Phoenix   Snape murmured   that they use decoys. Polyjuice Potion. Identical Potters. It's the only thing that might work. You will forget that I have suggested this. You will present it as your own idea. You understand.   I understand   murmured Mundungus  his eyes unfocused.
Now Harry was flying alongside Snape on a broomstick through a clear dark night: He was accompanied by other hodded Death Eaters  and ahead were Lupin and a Harry who was really George. A Death Eater moved ahead of Snape and raised his wand  pointing it directly at Lupin's back.  Sectumsempra.  shouted Snape. But the spell  intended for the Death Eater's wand hand  missed and hit George instead  
And next  Snape was kneeling in Sirius's old bedroom. Tears were dripping from the end of his hooked nose as he read the old letter from Lily. The second page carried only a few words: could ever have been friends with Gellert Grindelwald. I think her mind's going  personally. Lots of love  Lily
Snape took the page bearing Lily's signature  and her love  and tucked it inside his robes. Then he ripped in two the photograph he was also holding  so that he kept the part from which Lily laughed  throwing the portion showing James and Harry back onto the floor  under the chest of drawers. And now Snape stood again in the headmaster's study as Phineas Nigellus came hurrying into his portrait.
 Headmaster. They are camping in the Forest of Dean. The Mudblood      Do not use that word.      the Granger girl  then  mentioned the place as she opened her bag and I heard her. 
 Good. Very good.  cried the portrait of Dumbledore behind the headmaster's chair.  Now  Severus  the sword. Do not forget that it must be taken under conditions of need and valor   and he must not know that you give it. If Voldemort should read Harry's mind and see you acting for him    
 I know   said Snape curtly. He approached the portrait of Dumbledore and pulled at its side. It swung forward  revealing a hidden cavity behind it from which he took the sword of Gryffindor.  And you still aren't going to tell me why it's so important to give Potter the sword.  said Snape as he swung a traveling cloak over his robes.
 No  I don't think so   said Dumbledore's portrait.  He will know what to do with it. And Severus  be very careful  they may not take kindly to your appearance after George Weasley's mishap     Snape turned at the door.  Don't worry  Dumbledore   he said coolly.  I have a plan. 
And Snape left the room. Harry rose up out of the Pensieve  and moments later he lay on the carpeted floor in exactly the same rooms Snape might just have closed the door. The Forest Again
Finally  the truth. Lying with his face pressed into the dusty carpet of the office where he had once thought he was learning the secrets of victory  Harry understood at last that he was not supposed to survive. His job was to walk calmly into Death's welcoming arms. Along the way  he was to dispose of Voldemort's remaining links to life  so that when at last he flung himself across Voldemort's path  and did not raise a wand to defend himself  the end would be clean  and the job that ought to have been done in Godric's Hollow would be finished. Neither would live  neither could survive.
He felt his heart pounding fiercely in his chest. How strange that in his dread of death  it pumped all the harder  valiantly keeping him alive. But it would have to stop  and soon. Its beats were numbered. How many would there be time for  as he rose and walked through the castle for the last time  out into the grounds and into the forest.
Terror washed over him as he lay on the floor  with that funeral drum pounding inside him. Would it hurt to die. All those times he had thought that it was about to happen and escaped  he had never really thought of the thing itself: His will to live had always been so much stronger than his fear of death. Yet it did not occur to him now to try to escape  to outrun Voldemort. It was over  he knew it  and all that was left was the thing itself: dying.
If he could only have died on that summer's night when he had left number four  Privet Drive  for the last time  when the noble phoenix feather wand had saved him. If he could only have died like Hedwig  so quickly he would not have known it had happened. Or if he could have launched himself in front of a wand to save someone he loved . . . He envied even his parents' deaths now. This cold blooded walk to his own destruction
would require a different kind of bravery. He felt his fingers trembling slightly and made an effort to control them  although no one could see him; the portraits on the walls were all empty.
Slowly  very slowly  he sat up  and as he did so he felt more alive and more aware of his own living body than ever before. Why had he never appreciated what a miracle he was  brain and nerve and bounding heart. It would all be gone . . . or at least  he would be gone from it. His breath came slow and deep  and his mouth and throat were completely dry  but so were his eyes.
Dumbledore's betrayal was almost nothing. Of course there had been a bigger plan: Harry had simply been too foolish to see it  he realized that now. He had never questioned his own assumption that Dumbledore wanted him alive. Now he saw that his life span had always been determined by how long it took to eliminate all the Horcruxes. Dumbledore had passed the job of destroying them to him  and obediently he had continued to chip away at the bonds tying not only Voldemort  but himself  to life. How neat  how elegant  not to waste any more lives  but to give the dangerous task to the boy who had already been marked for slaughter  and whose death would not be a calamity  but another blow against Voldemort.
And Dumbledore had known that Harry would not duck out  that he would keep going to the end  even though it was his end  because he had taken trouble to get to know him  hadn't he. Dumbledore knew  as Voldemort knew  that Harry would not let anyone else die for him now that he had discovered it was in his power to stop it. The images of Fred  Lupin  and Tonks lying dead in the Great Hall forced their way back into his mind's eye  and for a moment he could hardly breathe. Death was impatient . . .
But Dumbledore had overestimated him. He had failed: The snake survived. One Horcrux remained to bind Voldemort to the earth  even after Harry had been killed. True  that would mean an easier job for somebody. He wondered who would do it . . . Ron and Hermione would know what needed to be done  of course . . . That would have been why Dumbledore wanted him to confide in two others . . . so that if he fulfilled his true destiny a little early  they could carry on . . . Like rain on a cold window  these thoughts pattered against the hard surface of the incontrovertible truth  which was that he must die. I must die. It must end.
Ron and Hermione seemed a long way away  in a far off country; he felt as though he had parted from them long ago. There would be no good byes and no explanations  he was determined of that. This was a journey they could not take together  and the attempts they would make to stop him would waste valuable time. He looked down at the battered gold watch he had received on his seventeenth birthday. Nearly half of the hour allotted by Voldemort for his surrender had elapsed.
He stood up. His heart was leaping against his ribs like a frantic bird. Perhaps it knew it had little time left  perhaps it was determined to fulfill a lifetime's beats before the end. He did not look back as he closed the office door.
The castle was empty. He felt ghostly striding through it alone  as if he had already died. The portrait people were still missing from their frames; the whole place was eerily still  as if all its remaining lifeblood were concentrated in the Great Hall where the dead and the mourners were crammed.
Harry pulled the Invisibility Cloak over himself and descended through the floors  at last walking down the marble staircase into the entrance hall. Perhaps some tiny part of him hoped to be sensed  to be seen  to be stopped  but the Cloak was  as ever  impenetrable  perfect  and he reached the front doors easily.
Then Neville nearly walked into him. He was one half of a pair that was carrying a body in from the grounds. Harry glanced down and felt another dull blow to his stomach: Colon Creevey  though underage  must have sneaked back just as Malfoy  Crabbe  and Goyle had done. He was tiny in death.
 You know what. I can manage him alone  Neville   said Oliver Wood  and he heaved Colin over his shoulder in a fireman's lift and carried him into the Great Hall.
Neville leaned against the door frame for a moment and wiped his forehead with the back of his hand. He looked like an old man. Then he set off on the steps again into the darkness to recover more bodies.
Harry took one glance back at the entrance of the Great Hall. People were moving around  trying to comfort each other  drinking  kneeling beside the dead  but he could not see any of the people he loved  no hint of Hermione  Ron  Ginny  or any of the other Weasleys  no Luna. He felt he would have given all the time remaining to him for just one last look at them; but then  would he ever have the strength to stop looking. It was better like this.
He moved down the steps and out into the darkness. It was nearly four in the morning  and the deathly stillness of the grounds felt as though they were holding their breath  waiting to see whether he could do what he must. Harry moved toward Neville  who was bending over another body.  Neville.   Blimey  Harry  you nearly gave me heart failure. 
Harry had pulled off the Cloak: The idea had come to him out of nowhere  born out of a desire to make absolutely sure.  Where are you going  alone.  Neville asked suspiciously.
 It's all part of the plan   said Harry.  There's someting I've got to do. Listen     Neville       Harry.  Neville looked suddenly scared.  Harry  you're not thinking of handing yourself over. 
 No   Harry lied easily.  'Course not . . . this is something else. But I might be out of sight for a while. You know Voldemort's snake. Neville. He's got a huge snake . . . Calls it Nagini . . .   I've heard  yeah . . . What about it.   It's got to be killed. Ron and Hermione know that  but just in case they     
The awfulness of that possibility smothered him for a moment  made it impossible to keep talking. But he pulled himself together again: This was crucial  he must be like Dumbledore  keep a cool head  make sure there were backups  others to carry on. Dumbledore had died knowing that three people still knew about the Horcruxes; now Neville would take Harry's place: There would still be three in the secret.  Just in case they're     busy     and you get the chance       Kill the snake.   Kill the snake   Harry repeated.
 All right  Harry. You're okay  are you.   I'm fine. Thanks  Neville.  But Neville seized his wrist as Harry made to move on.  We're all going to keep fighting  Harry. You know that.   Yeah  I     
The suffocating feeling extinguished the end of the sentence; he could not go on. Neville did not seem to find it strange. He patted Harry on the shoulder  released him  and walked away to look for more bodies.
Harry swung the Cloak back over himself and walked on. Someone else was moving not far away  stooping over another prone figure on the ground. He was feet away from her when he realized it was Ginny. He stopped in his tracks. She was crouching over a girl who was whispering for her mother.
 It's all right   Ginny was saying.  It's ok. We're going to get you inside.   But I want to go home   whispered the girl.  I don't want to fight anymore.   I know   said Ginny  and her voice broke.  It's going to be all right. 
Ripples of cold undulated over Harry's skin. He wanted to shout out to the night  he wanted Ginny to know that he was there  he wanted her to know where he was going. He wanted to be stopped  to be dragged back  to be sent back home. . . .
But he was home. Hogwards was the first and best home he had known. He and Voldemort and Snape  the abandoned boys  had all found home here. . . .
Ginny was kneeling beside the injured girl now  holding her hand. With a huge effort Harry forced himself on. He thought he saw Ginny look around as he passed  and wondered whether she had sensed someone walking nearby  but he did not speak  and he did not look back.
Hagrid's hut loomed out of the darkness. There were no lights  no sound of Fang scrabbling at the door  his bark booming in welcome. All those visits to Hagrid  and the gleam of the copper kettle on the fire  and rock cakes and giant grubs  and his great bearded face  and Ron vomiting slugs  and Hermione helping him save Norbert . . . He moved on  and now he reached the edge of the forest  and he stopped.
A swarm of dementors was gliding amongst the trees; he could feel their chill  and he was not sure he would be able to pass safely through it. He had not strength left for a Patronus. He could no longer control his own trembling. It was not  after all  so easy to die. Every second he breathed  the smell of the grass  the cool air on his face  was so precious: To think that people had years and years  time to waste  so much time it dragged  and he was clinging to each second. At the same time he thought that he would not be able to go on  and knew that he must. The long game was ended  the Snitch had been caught  it was time to leave the air. . . . The Snitch. His nerveless fingers fumbled for a moment with the pouch at his neck and he pulled it out. I open at the close.
Breathing fast and hard  he stared down at it. Now that he wanted time to move as slowly as possible  he seemed to have sped up  and understanding was coming so fast it seemed to have bypassed though. This was the close. This was the moment.
He pressed the golden metal to his lips and whispered   I am about to die.  The metal shell broke open. He lowered his shaking hand  raised Draco's wand beneath the Cloak  and murmured   Lumos. 
The black stone with is jagged crack running down the center sat in the two halves of the Snitch. The Resurrection Stone had cracked down the vertical line representing the Elder Wand. The triangle and circle representing the Cloak and the stone were still discernible.
And again Harry understood without having to think. It did not matter about bringing them back  for he was about to join them. He was not really fetching them: They were fetching him. He closed his eyes and turned the stone over in his hand three times.
He knew it had happened  because he heard slight movements around him that suggested frail bodies shifting their footing on the earthy  twig strewn ground that marked the outer edge of the forest. He opened his eyes and looked around.
They were neither ghost nor truly flesh  he could see that. They resembled most closely the Riddle that had escaped from the diary so long ago  and he had been memory made nearly solid. Less substantial than living bodies  but much more than ghosts  they moved toward him. And on each face  there was the same loving smile.
James was exactly the same height as Harry. He was wearing the clothes in which he had died  and his hair was untidy and ruffled  and his glasses were a little lopsided  like Mr. Weasley's.
Sirius was tall and handsome  and younger by far than Harry had seen him in life. He loped with an easy grace  his hands in his pockets and a grin on his face.
Lupin was younger too  and much less shabby  and his hair was thicker and darker. He looked happy to be back in this familiar place  scene of so many adolescent wanderings.
Lily's smile was widest of all. She pushed her long hair back as she drew closer to him  and her green eyes  so like his  searched his face hungrily  as though she would never be able to look at him enough.  You've been so brave. 
He could not speak. His eyes feasted on her  and he thought that he would like to stand and look at her forever  and that would be enough.  You are nearly there   said James.  Very close. We are . . . so proud of you.   Does it hurt. 
The childish question had fallen from Harry's lips before he could stop it.  Dying. Not at all   said Sirius.  Quicker and easier than falling asleep.   And he will want it to be quick. He wants it over   said Lupin.
 I didn't want you to die   Harry said. These words came without his volition.  Any of you. I'm sorry      He addressed Lupin more than any of them  beseeching him.      right after you'd had your son . . . Remus  I'm sorry     
 I am sorry too   said Lupin.  Sorry I will never know him . . . but he will know why I died and I hope he will understand. I was trying to make a world in which he could live a happier life. 
A chilly breeze that seemed to emanate from the heart of the forest lifted the hair at Harry's brow. He knew that they would not tell him to go  that it would have to be his decision.  You'll stay with me.   Until the very end   said James.
 They won't be able to see you.  asked Harry.  We are part of you   said Sirius.  Invisible to anyone else.  Harry looked at his mother.  Stay close to me   he said quietly.
And he set of. The dementors' chill did not overcome him; he passed through it with his companions  and they acted like Patronuses to him  and together they marched through the old trees that grew closely together  their branches tangled  their roots gnarled and twisted underfoot. Harry clutched the Cloak tightly around him in the darkness  traveling deeper and deeper into the forest  with no idea where exactly Voldemort was  but sure that he would find him. Beside him  making scarcely a sound  walked James  Sirius  Lupin  and Lily  and their presence was his courage  and the reason he was able to keep putting one foot in front of the other.
His body and mind felt oddly disconnected now  his limbs working without conscious instruction  as if he were passenger  not driver  in the body he was about to leave. The dead who walked beside him through the forest were much more real to him now than the living back at the castle: Ron  Hermione  Ginny  and all the others were the ones who felt like ghosts as he stumbled and slipped toward the end of his life  toward Voldemort . . .
A thud and a whisper: Some other living creature had stirred close by. Harry stopped under the Cloak  peering around  listening  and his mother and father  Lupin and Sirius stopped too.  Someone there   came a rough whisper close at hand.  He's got an Invisibility Cloak. Could it be     . 
Two figures emerged from behind a nearby tree: Their wands flared  and Harry saw Yaxley and Dolohov peering into the darkness  directly at the place Harry  his mother and father and Sirius and Lupin stood. Apparently they could not see anything.  Definitely heard something   said Yaxley.  Animal  d'you reckon. 
 That head case Hagrid kept a whole bunch of stuff in here   said Dolohov  glancing over his shoulder. Yaxley looked down at his watch.  Time's nearly up. Porter's had his hour. He's not coming.   Better go back   said Yaxley.  Find out what the plan is now. 
He and Dolohov turned and walked deeper into the forest. Harry followed them  knowing that they would lead him exactly where he wanted to go. He glanced sideways  and his mother smiled at him  and his father nodded encouragement.
They had traveled on mere minutes when Harry saw light ahead  and Yaxley and Dolohov stepped out into a clearing that Harry knew had been the place where the monstrous Aragog had once lived. The remnants of his vast web were there still  but the swarms of descendants he had spawned had been driven out by the Death Eaters  to fight for their cause.
A fire burned in the middle of the clearing  and its flickering light fell over a crowd of completely silent  watchful Death Eaters. Some of them were still masked and hooded; others showed their faces. Two giants sat on the outskirts of the group  casting massive shadows over the scene  their faces cruel  rough hewn like rock. Harry saw Fenrir  skulking  chewing his long nails; the great blond Rowle was dabbing at his bleeding lip. He saw Lucius Malfoy  who looked defeated and terrified  and Narcissa  whose eyes were sunken and full of apprehension.
Every eye was fixed upon Voldemort  who stood with his head bowed  and his white hands folded over the Elder Wand in front of him. He might have been praying  or else counting silently in his mind  and Harry  standing still on the edge of the scene  though absurdly of a child counting in a game of hide and seek. Behind his head  still swirling and coiling  the great snake Nagini floated in her glittering  charmed cage  like a monstrous halo. When Dolohov and Yaxley rejoined the circle  Voldemort looked up.  No sign of him  my Lord   said Dolohov.
Voldemort's expression did not change. The red eyes seemed to burn in the firelight. Slowly he drew the Elder Wand between his long fingers.  My Lord      Bellatrix had spoken: She sat closest to Voldemort  disheveled  her face a little bloody but otherwise unharmed.
Voldemort raised his hand to silence her  and she did not speak another word  but eyed him in worshipful fascination.  I thought he would come   said Voldemort in his high  clear voice  his eyes on the leaping flames.  I expected him to come. 
Nobody spoke. They seemed as scared as Harry  whose heart was now throwing itself against his ribs as though determined to escape the body he was about to cast aside. His hands were sweating as he pulled off the Invisibility Cloak and stuffed it beneath his robes  with his wand. He did not want to be tempted to fight.  I was  it seems . . . mistaken   said Voldemort.  You weren't. 
Harry said it as loudly as he could  with all the force he could muster: He did not want to sound afraid. The Resurrection Stone slipped from between his numb fingers  and out of the corner of his eyes he saw his parents  Sirius  and Lupin vanish as he stepped forward into the firelight. At that moment he felt that nobody mattered but Voldemort. It was just the two of them.
The illusion was gone as soon as it had come. The giants roared as the Death Eaters rose together  and there were many cries  gasps  even laughter. Voldemort had frozen where he stood  but his red eyes had found Harry  and he stared as Harry moved toward him  with nothing but the fire between them. Then a voice yelled:  HARRY. NO. 
He turned: Hagrid was bound and trussed  tied to a tree nearby. His massive body shook the branches overhead as he struggled  desperate.  NO. NO. HARRY  WHAT'RE YEH     .   QUIET.  shouted Rowle  and with a flick of his wand  Hagrid was silenced.
Bellatrix  who had leapt to her feet  was looking eagerly from Voldemort to Harry  her breast heaving. The only things that moved were the flames and the snake  coiling and uncoiling in the glittering cage behind Voldemort's head.
Harry could feel his wand against his chest  but he made no attempt to draw it. He knew that the snake was too well protected  knew that if he managed to point the wand at Nagini  fifty curses would hit him first. And still  Voldemort and Harry looked at each other  and now Voldemort tilted his head a little to the side  considering the boy standing before him  and a singularly mirthless smile curled the lipless mouth.  Harry Potter   he said very softly. His voice might have been part of the spitting fire.  The Boy Who Lived. 
None of the Death Eaters moved. They were waiting: Everything was waiting. Hagrid was struggling  and Bellatrix was panting  and Harry thought inexplicably of Ginny  and her blazing look  and the feel of her lips on his    
Voldemort had raised his wand. His head was still tilted to one side  like a curious child  wondering what would happen if he proceeded. Harry looked back into the red eyes  and wanted it to happen now  quickly  while he could still stand  before he lost control  before he betrayed fear     He saw the mouth move and a flash of green light  and everything was gone.
King's Cross He lay facedown  listening to the silence. He was perfectly alone. Nobody was watching. Nobody else was there. He was not perfectly sure that he was there himself.
A long time later  or maybe no time at all  it came to him that he must exist  must be more than disembodied thought  because he was lying  definitely lying  on some surface. Therefore he had a sense of touch  and the thing against which he lay existed too.
Almost as soon as he had reached this conclusion  Harry became conscious that he was naked. Convinced as he was of his total solitude  this did not concern him  but it did intrigue him slightly. He wondered whether  as he could feel  he would be able to see. In opening them  he discovered that he had eyes.
He lay in a bright mist  though it was not like mist he had ever experienced before. His surroundings were not hidden by cloudy vapor; rather the cloudy vapor had not yet formed into surroundings. The floor on which he lay seemed to be white  neither warm nor cold  but simply there  a flat  blank something on which to be. He sat up. His body appeared unscathed. He touched his face. He was not wearing glasses anymore.
Then a noise reached him through the unformed nothingness that surrounded him: the small soft thumpings of something that flapped  flailed  and struggled. It was a pitiful noise  yet also slightly indecent. He had the uncomfortable feeling that he was eavesdropping on something furtive  shameful. For the first time  he wished he were clothed.
Barely had the wish formed in his head than robes appeared a short distance away. He took them and pulled them on. They were soft  clean  and warm. It was extraordinary how they had appeared just like that  the moment he had wanted them. . . .
He stood up  looking around. Was he in some great Room of Requirement. The longer he looked  the more there was to see. A great domed glass roof glittered high above him in sunlight. Perhaps it was a palace. All was hushed and still  except for those odd thumping and whimpering noises coming from somewhere close by in the mist. . . .
Harry turned slowly on the spot  and his surroundings seemed to invent themselves before his eyes. A wide open space  bright and clean  a hall larger by far than the Great Hall  with that clear domed glass ceiling. It was quite empty. He was the only person there  except for  
He recoiled. He had spotted the thing that was making the noises. It had the form of a small  naked child  curled on the ground  its skin raw and rough  flayed looking  and it lay shuddering under a seat where it had been left  unwanted  stuffed out of sight  struggling for breath.
He was afraid of it. Small and fragile and wounded though it was  he did not want to approach it. Nevertheless he drew slowly nearer  ready to jump back at any moment. Soon he stood near enough to touch it  yet he could not bring himself to do it. He felt like a coward. He ought to comfort it  but it repulsed him.  You cannot help. 
He spun around. Albus Dumbledore was walking toward him  sprightly and upright  wearing sweeping robes of midnight blue.  Harry.  He spread his arms wide  and his hands were both whole and white and undamaged.  You wonderful boy. You brave  brave man. Let us walk. 
Stunned  Harry followed as Dumbledore strode away from where the flayed child lay whimpering  leading him to two seats that Harry had not previously noticed  set some distance away under that high  sparkling ceiling. Dumbledore sat down in one of them  and Harry fell into the other  staring at his old headmaster's face. Dumbledore's long silver hair and beard  the piercingly blue eyes behind half moon spectacles  the crooked nose: Everything was as he had remembered it. And yet . . .  But you're dead   said Harry.  Oh yes   said Dumbledore matter of factly.  Then . . . I'm dead too. 
 Ah   said Dumbledore  smiling still more broadly.  That is the question  isn't it. On the whole  dear boy  I think not.  They looked at each other  the old man still beaming.  Not.  repeated Harry.  Not   said Dumbledore.
 But . . .  Harry raised his hand instinctively toward the lightning scar. It did not seem to be there.  But I should have died   I didn't defend myself. I meant to let him kill me. 
 And that   said Dumbledore   will  I think  have made all the difference.  Happiness seemed to radiate from Dumbledore like light; like fire: Harry had never seen the man so utterly  so palpably content.  Explain   said Harry.
 But you already know   said Dumbledore. He twiddled his thumbs together.  I let him kill me   said Harry.  Didn't I.   You did   said Dumbledore  nodding.  Go on.   So the part of his soul that was in me . . . 
Dumbledore nodded still more enthusiastically  urging Harry onward  a broad smile of encouragement on his face.  . . . has it gone.   Oh yes.  said Dumbledore.  Yes  he destroyed it. Your soul is whole  and completely your own  Harry. 
 But then . . .  Harry trembled over his shoulder to where the small  maimed creature trembled under the chair.  What is that  Professor.   something that is beyond either of our help   said Dumbledore.
 But if Voldemort used the Killing Curse   Harry started again   and nobody died for me this time   how can I be alive.   I think you know   said Dumbledore.  Think back. Remember what he did  in his ignorance  in his greed and his cruelty. 
Harry thought. He let his gaze drift over his surroundings. If it was indeed a palace in which they sat  it was an odd one  with chairs set in little rows and bits of railing here and there  and still  he and Dumbledore and the stunted creatures under the chair were the only beings there. Then the answer rose to his lips easily  without effort.  He took my blood   said Harry.
 Precisely.  said Dumbledore.  He took your blood and rebuilt his living body with it. Your blood in his veins  Harry  Lily's protection inside both of you. He thethered you to life while he lives. 
 I live . . . while he lives. But I thought . . . I thought it was the other way around. I thought we both had to die. Or is it the same thing. 
He was distracted by the whimpering and thumping of the agonized creature behind them and glanced back at it yet again.  Are you sure we can't do anything.   There is no help possible.   Then explain . . . more   said Harry  and Dumbledore smiled.
 You were the seventh Horcrux  Harry  the Horcrux he never meant to make. He had rendered his soul so unstable that it broke apart when he committed those acts of unspeakable evil  the murder of your parents  the attempted killing of a child. But what escaped from that room was even less than he knew. He left more than his body behind. He left part of himself latched to you  the would be victim who had survived.
 And his knowledge remained woefully incomplete  Harry. That which Voldemort does not value  he takes no trouble to comprehend. Of house elves and children's tales  of love  loyalty  and innocence  Voldemort knows and understands nothing. Nothing. That they all have a power beyond his own  a power beyond the reach of any magic  is a truth he has never grasped.
 He took your blood believing it would strengthen him. He took into his body a tiny part of the enchantment your mother laid upon you when she died for you. His body keeps her sacrafice alive  and while that enchantment survives  so do you and so does Voldemort's one last hope for himself.  Dumbledore smiled at Harry  and Harry stared at him.  And you knew this. You knew   all along. 
 I guessed. But my guesses have usually been good   said Dumbledore happily  and they sat in silence for what seemed like a long time  while the creature behind them continued to whimper and tremble.
 There's more   said Harry.  There's more to it. Why did my wand break the wand he borrowed.   As to that  I cannot be sure.   Have a guess  then   said Harry  and Dumbledore laughed.
 What you must understand  Harry  is that you and Lord Voldemort have journeyed together into realms of magic hitherto unknown and untested. But here is what I think happened  and it is unprecedented  and no wandmaker could  I think  ever have predicted or explained it to Voldemort.
 Without meaning to  as you now know  Lord Voldemort doubled the bond between you when he returned to a human form. A part of his soul was still attached to yours  and  thinking to strengthen himself  he took a part of your mother's sacrafice into himself. If he could only have understood the precise and terrible power of that sacrifice  he would not  perhaps  have dared to touch your blood. . . . But then  if he had been able to understand  he could not be Lord Voldemort  and might never have murdered at all.
 Having ensured this two fold connection  having wrapped your destinies together more securely than ever two wizards were joined in history  Voldemort proceeded to attack you with a wand that shared a core with yours. And now something very strange happened  as we know. The cores reacted in a way that Lord Voldemort  who never knew that your wand was a twin of his  had ever expected.
 He was more afraid than you were that night  Harry. You had accepted  even embraced  the possibility of death  something Lord Voldemort has never been able to do. Your courage won  your wand overpowered his. And in doing so  something happened between those wands  something that echoed the relationship between their masters.
 I believe that your wand imbibed some of the power and qualities of Voldemort's wand that night  which is to say that it contained a little of Voldemort himself. So your wand recognized him when he pursued you  recognized a man who was both kin and mortal enemy  and it regurgitated some of his own magic against him  magic much more powerful than anything Lucius's wand had ever performed. Your wand now contained the power of your enormous courage and of Voldemort's own deadly skill: What chance did that poor stick of Lucius Malfoy's stand.   But if my wand was so powerful  how come Hermione was able to break it.  asked Harry.
 My dear boy  its remarkable effects were directed only at Voldemort  who had tampered so ill advisedly with the deepest laws of magic. Only toward him was that wand abnormally powerful. Otherwise it was a wand like any other . . . though a good one  I am sure   Dumbledore finished kindly. Harry sat in thought for a long time  or perhaps seconds. It was very hard to be sure of things like time  here.  He killed me with your wand. 
 He failed to kill you with my wand   Dumbledore corrected Harry.  I think we can agree that you are not dead   though  of course   he added  as if fearing he had been discourteous   I do not minimize your sufferings  which I am sure were severe. 
 I feel great at the moment  though   said Harry  looking down at his clean  unblemished hands.  Where are we  exactly.   Well  I was going to ask you that   said Dumbledore  looking around.  Where would you say that we are. 
Until Dumbledore had asked  Harry had not known. Now  however  he found that he had an answer ready to give.  It looks   he said slowly   like King's Cross station. Except a lo cleaner and empty  and there are no trains as far as I can see. 
 King's Cross station.  Dumbledore was chuckling immoderately.  Good gracious  really.   Well  where do you think we are.  asked Harry  a little defensively.  My dear boy  I have no idea. This is  as they say  your party. 
Harry had no idea what this meant; Dumbledore was being infuriating. He glared at him  then remembered a much more pressing question than that of their current location.  The Deathly Hallows   he said  and he was glad to see that the words wiped the smile from Dumbledore's face.
 Ah  yes   he said. He even looked a little worried.  Well.  For the first time since Harry had met Dumbledore  he looked less than an old man  much less. He looked fleetingly like a small boy caught in wrongdoing.
 Can you forgive me.  he said.  Can you forgive me for not trusting you. For not telling you. Harry  I only feared that you would fail as I had failed. I only dreaded that you would make my mistakes. I crave your pardon  Harry. I have known  for some time now  that you are the better man. 
 What are you talking about.  asked Harry  startled by Dumbledore's tone  by the sudden tears in his eyes.  The Hallows  the Hallows   murmured Dumbledore.  A desperate man's dream.   But they're real. 
 Real  and dangerous  and a lure for fools   said Dumbledore.  And I was such a fool. But you know  don't you. I have no secrets from you anymore. You know.   What do I know. 
Dumbledore turned his whole body to face Harry  and tears still sparkled in the brilliantly blue eyes.  Master of death  Harry  master of Death. Was I better  ultimately  than Voldemort. 
 Of course you were   said Harry.  Of course   how can you ask that. You never killed if you could avoid it.   True  true   said Dumbledore  and he was like a child seeking reassurance.  Yet I too sought a way to conquer death  Harry. 
 Not the way he did   said Harry. After all his anger at Dumbledore  how odd it was to sit here  beneath the high  vaulted ceiling  and defend Dumbledore from himself.  Hallows  not Horcruxes.   Hallows   murmured Dumbledore   not Horcruxes. Precisely. 
There was a pause. The creature behind them whimpered  but Harry no longer looked around.  Grindelwald was looking for them too.  he asked. Dumbledore closed his eyes for a moment and nodded.
 It was the thing  above all  that drew us together   he said quietly.  Two clever  arrogant boys with a shared obsession. He wanted to come to Godric's Hollow  as I am sure you have guessed  because of the grave of Ignotus Peverell. He wanted to explore the place the third brother had died.   So it's true.  asked Harry.  All of it. The Peverell brothers   
  were the three brothers of the tale   said Dumbledore  nodding.  Oh yes  I think so. Whether they met Death on a lonely road . . . I think it more likely that the
Peverell brothers were simply gifted  dangerous wizards who succeeded in creating those powerful objects. The story of them being Death's own Hallows seems to me the sort of legend that might have sprung up around such creations.
 The Cloak  as you know now  traveled down through the ages  father to son  mother to daughter  right down to Ignotus's last living descendant  who was born  as Ignotus was  in the village of Godric's Hollow.  Dumbledore smiled at Harry.  Me. 
 You. You have guessed   I know  why the Cloak was in my possession on the night your parents died. James had showed it to me just a few days previously. It explained much of his undetected wrongdoing at school. I could hardly believe what I was seeing. I asked to borrow it  to examine it. I had long since given up my dream of uniting the Hallows  but I could not resist  could not help taking a closer look. . . . It was a Cloak the likes of which I had never seen  immensely old  perfect in every respect . . . and then your father died  and I had two Hallows at last  all to myself.  His tone was unbearably bitter.
 The Cloak wouldn't have helped them survive  though   Harry said quickly.  Voldemort knew where my mum and dad were. The Cloak couldn't have made them curse proof.   true   sighed Dumbledore.  True.  Harry waited  but Dumbledore did not speak  so he prompted him.  So you'd given up looking for the Hallows when you saw the Cloak. 
 Oh yes   said Dumbledore faintly. It seemed that he forced himself to meet Harry's eyes.  You know what happened. You know. You cannot despise me more than I despise myself.   But I don't despise you   
 Then you should   said Dumbledore. He drew a deep breath.  You know the secret of my sister's ill health  what those Muggles did  what she became. You know how my poor father sought revenge  and paid the price  died In Azkaban. You know how my mother gave up her own life to care for Ariana.  I resented it  Harry. 
Dumbledore stated it baldly  coldly. He was looking now over the top of Harry's head  into the distance.  I was gifted  I was brilliant. I wanted to escape. I wanted to shine. I wanted glory.
 Do not misunderstand me   he said  and pain crossed the face so that he looked ancient again.  I loved them  I loved my parents  I loved my brother and my sister  but I was selfish  Harry  more selfish than you  who are a remarkably selfless person  could possibly imagine.
 So that  when my mother died  and I was left the responsibility of a damaged sister and a wayward brother  I returned to my village in anger and bitterness. Trapped and wasted  I thought. And then of course  he came. . . . 
Dumbledore looked directly into Harry's eyes again.  Grindelwald. You cannot imagine how his ideas caught me  Harry  inflamed me. Muggles forced into subservience. We wizards triumphant. Grindelwald and I  the glorious young leaders of the revolution.
 Oh  I had a few scruples. I assuaged my conscience with empty words. It would all be for the greater good  and any harm done would be repaid a hundredfold in benefits for wizards. Did I know  in my heart of hearts  what Gellert Grindelwald was. I think I did  but I closed my eyes. If the plans we were making came to fruition  all my dreams would come true.
 And at the heart of our schemes  the Deathly Hallows. How they fascinated him  how they fascinated both of us. The unbeatable wand  the weapon that would lead us to power. The Resurrection Stone   to him  though I pretended not to know it  it meant an army of Inferi. To me  I confess  it meant the return of my parents  and the lifting of all responsibility from my shoulders.
 And the Cloak . . . somehow  we never discussed the Cloak much  Harry. Both of us could conceal ourselves well enough without the Cloak  the true magic of which  of course  is that it can be used to protect and shield others as well as its owner. I thought that  if we ever found it  it might be useful in hiding Ariana  but our interest in the Cloak was mainly that it completed the trio  for the legend said that the man who had united all three objects would then be truly master of death  which we took to mean 'invincible.'  Invincible masters of death  Grindelwald and Dumbledore. Two months of insanity  of cruel dreams  and neglect of the only two members of my family left to me.
 And then . . . you know what happened. Reality returned in the form of my rough  unlettered  and infinitely more admirable brother. I did not want to hear the truths he shouted at me. I did not want to hear that I could not set forth and seek Hallows with a fragile and unstable sister in tow.
 The argument became a fight. Grindelwald lost control. That which I had always sensed in him  though I pretended not to  now sprang into terrible being. And Ariana . . . after all my mother's care and caution . . . lay dead upon the floor. 
Dumbledore gave a little gasp and began to cry in earnest. Harry reached out and was glad to find that he could touch him: He gripped his arm tightly and Dumbledore gradually regained control.
 Well  Grindelwald fled  as anyone but I could have predicted. He vanished  with his plans for seizing power  and his schemes for Muggle torture  and his dreams of the Deathly Hallows  dreams in which I had encouraged him and helped him. He ran  while I was left to bury my sister  and learn to live with my guilt and my terrible grief  the price of my shame.
 Years passed. There were rumors about him. They said he had procured a wand of immense power. I  meanwhile  was offered the post of Minister of Magic  not once  but several times. Naturally  I refused. I had learned that I was not to be trusted with power.   But you'd have been better  much better  than Fudge or Scimgeour.  burst out Harry.
 Would I.  asked Dumbledore heavily.  I am not so sure. I had proven  as a very young man  that power was my weakness and my temptation. It is a curious thing  Harry  but perhaps those who are best suited to power are those who have never sought it. Those who  like you  have leadership thrust upon them  and take up the mantle because they must  and find to their own surprise that they wear it well.  I was safer at Hogwarts. I think I was a good teacher     You were the best     
     you are very kind  Harry. But while I busied myself with the training of young wizards  Grindelwald was raising an army. They say he feared me  and perhaps he did  but less  I think  than I feared him.
 Oh  not death   said Dumbledore  in answer to Harry's questioning look.  Not what he could do to me magically. I knew that we were evenly matched  perhaps that I was a shade more skillful. It was the truth I feared. You see  I never knew which of us  in that last  horrific fight  had actually cast the curse that killed my sister. You may call me cowardly: You would be right  Harry. I dreaded beyond all things the knowledge that it had been I who brought about her death  not merely through my arrogance and stupidity  but that I actually struck the blow that snuffed out her life.
 I think he knew it  I think he knew what frightened me. I delayed meeting him until finally  it would have been too shameful to resist any longer. People were dying and he seemed unstoppable  and I had to do what I could.  Well  you know what happened next. I won the duel. I won the wand. 
Another silence. Harry did not ask whether Dumbledore had ever found out who struck Ariana dead. He did not want to know  and even less did he want Dumbledore to have to tell him. At last he knew what Dumbledore would have seen when he looked in the mirror of Erised  and why Dumbledore had been so understanding of the fascination it had exercised over Harry. They sat in silence for a long time  and the whipmerings of the creature behind them barely disturbed Harry anymore.
At last he said   Grindelwald tried to stop Voldemort going after the wand. He lied  you know  pretended he had never had it.  Dumbledore nodded  looking down at his lap  tears still glittering on the crooked nose.
 They say he showed remorse in later years  alone in his cell at Nurmengard. I hope that is true. I would like to think that he did feel the horror and shame of what he had done. Perhaps that lie to Voldemort was his attempt to make amends . . . to prevent Voldemort from taking the Hallow . . . 
 . . .or maybe from breaking into your tomb.  suggested Harry  and Dumbledore dabbed his eyes. After another short pause Harry said   You tried to use the Resurrection Stone.  Dumbledore nodded.
 When I discovered it  after all those years  buried in the abandoned home of the Gaunts     the Hallow I had craved most of all  though in my youth I had wanted it for very different reasons     I lost my head  Harry. I quite forgot that I was not a Horcrux  that the ring was sure to carry a curse. I picked it up  and I put it on  and for a second I imagined that I was about to see Ariana  and my mother  and my father  and to tell them how very  very sorry  I was. . . .
 I was such a fool  Harry. After all those years I had learned nothing. I was unworthy to unite the Deathly Hallows  I had proved it time and again  and here was final proof.   Why.  said Harry.  It was natural. You wanted to see them again. What's wrong with that. 
 Maybe a man in a million could unite the Hallows  Harry. I was fit only to possess the meanest of them  the least extraordinary. I was fit to own the Elder Wand 
and not boast of it  and not to kill with it. I was permitted to tame and use it  because I took it  not for gain  but to save others from it.
 But the Cloak  I took out of vain curiousity  and so it could never have worked for me as it works for you  its true owners. The stone I would have used in an attempt to drag back those who are at peace  rather than enable my self sacrafice  as you did. You are the worthy possessor of the Hallows. 
Dumbledore patted Harry's hand  and Harry looked up at the old man and smiled; he could not help himself. How coul dhe remain angry with Dumbledore now.  Why did you have to make it so difficult.  Dumbledore's smile was tremulous.
 I am afraid I counted on Miss Granger to slow you up  Harry. I was afraid that your hot head might dominate your good heart. I was scared that  if presented outright with the facts about those tempting objects  you might seize the Hallows as I did  at the wrong time  for the wrong reasons. If you laid hands on them  I wanted you to possess them safely. You are the true master of death  because the true master does not seek to run away from Death. He accepts that he must die  and understands that there are far  far worse things in the living world than dying.   And Voldemort never knew about the Hallows. 
 I do not think so  because he did not recognize the Resurrection Stone he turned into a Horcrux. But even if he had known about them  Harry. I doubt that he woul dhave been interested in any except the first. He would not think that he needed the Cloak  and as for the stone  whom would he want to bring back from the dead. He fears the dead. He does not love.   But you expected him to go after the wand. 
 I have been sure that he would try  ever since your wand beat Voldemort's in the graveyard of Little Hangleton. At first  he was afraid that you had conquered him by superior skill. Once he had kidnapped Ollivander  however  he discovered the existence of the twin cores. He thought that explained everything. Yet the borrowed wand did no better against yours. So Voldemort  instead of asking himself what quality it was in you that had made your wand so strong  what gift you possessed that he did not  naturally set out to find the one wand that  they said  would beat any other. For him  the Elder Wand has become an obsession to rival his obsession with you. He believes that the Elder Wand removes his last weakness and makes him truly invincible. Poor Severus . . . 
 If you planned your death with Snape  you meant him to end up with the Elder Wand  didn't you.   I admit that was my intention   said Dumbledore   but it did not work as I intended  did it.   No   said Harry.  That bit didn't work out. 
The creature behind them jerked and moaned  and Harry and Dumbledore sate without talking for the longest time yet. The realization of what would happen next settled gradually over Harry in the long minutes  like softly falling snow.  I've got to go back  haven't I.   That is up to you.   I've got a choice. 
 Oh yes   Dumbledore smiled at him.  We are in King's Cross you say. I think that if you decided not to go back  you would be able to . . . let's say . . . board a train. 
 And where would it take me.   On   said Dumbledore simply. Silence again.  Voldemort's got the Elder Wand.   True. Voldemort has the Elder Wand.   But you want me to go back. 
 I think   said Dumbledore   that if you choose to return  there is a chance that he may be finished for good. I cannot promise it. But I know this  Harry  that you have less to fear from returning here than he does.  Harry glanced again at the raw looking thing that trembled and choked in the shadow beneath the distant chair.
 Do not pity the dead  Harry. Pity the living  and above all  those who live without love. By returning  you may ensure that fewer souls are maimed  fewer families are torn apart. If that seems to you a worthy goal  they we saw good bye for the present. 
Harry nodded and sighed. Leaving this place would not be nearly as hard as walking into the forest had been  but it was warm and light and peaceful here  and he knew that he was heading back to pain and the fear of more loss. He stood up  and Dumbledore did the same  and they looked for a long moment into each other's faces.  Tell me one last thing   said Harry   Is this real. Or has this been happening inside my head. 
Dumbledore beamed at him  and his voice sounded loud and strong in Harry's ears even though the bright mist was descending again  obscuring his figure.  Of course it is happening inside your head  Harry  but why on earth should that mean it is not real.  The Flaw in the Plan
He was flying facedown on the grond again. The smell of the forest filled his nostrils. He could feel the cold hard ground beneath his cheek  and the hinge of his glasses which have been knocked sideways
by the fall cutting into his temple. Every inch of him ached  and the place where Killing Curse had hit him felt like the bruise of an iron clad punch. He did not stir  but he remained exactly where he had fallen  with
his left arm bent out at an akward angle and his mouth gaping. He had expected to hear cheer of triumph and jubilation at his death  but instead hurried footsteps  whispers  and solicitous murmurs filled the air.  My Lord. my Lord. 
It was Bellatrix's voice  and she spoke as if to a lover. Harry did not dare open his eyes  but allowed his other senses to explore his predicament. He knew that his wand was still stowed beneath his robes because
he could feel it pressed between his chest and the ground. A slight cushioning effect in the area of his stomach told him that the Invisibility Cloak was also there  stuffed out of sight.  My Lord. 
 That will do   said Voldemort's voice. More footsteps. Several people were backing away from the same spot. Desperate to see what was happening and why  Harry opened his eyes by a milimeter.
Voldemort seemed to be getting to his feet. Various Death Eaters were hurrying away from him  returning to the crowd lining the clearing. Bellatrix alone remained behind  kneeling beside Voldemort.
Harry closed his eyes again and considered what he had seen. The Death Eaters have been buddled around Voldemort  who seem to have fallen to the ground. Something had happened when he had hit Harry with
the Killing Curse. Had Voldemort too collapsed. It seemed like it. And both of them had briefly fallen unconcious and both of them had now returned. . .  My Lord  let me    
 I do not require assitance   said Voldemort coldly  and though he could not see it  Harry pictured Bellatrix withdrawing a helpful hand.  The boy . . . Is he dead. 
There was a complete silence in the clearing. Nobody approached Harry  but he felt their concentraded gaze; it seemed to press him harder into the ground  and he was terrified a finger or an eyelid might twitch.
 You   said Voldemort  and there was a bang and a small shrick of pain.  Examine him. Tell me whether he is dead.  Harry did not know who had been sent to verify. He could only lie there  with his heart thumping traitorously  and wait to be
examined  but at the same time nothing  small comfort through it was  that Voldemort was wary of approaching him  that Voldemort suspected that all had not gone to plan . . . .
Hands  softer than he had been expecting  touched Harry's face  and felt his heart. He could hear the woman's fast breathing  her pounding of life against his ribs.  Is Draco alive. Is he in the castle. 
The whisper was barely audible  her lips were an inch from his car  her head bent so low that her long hair shielded his face from the onlookers.  Yes   he breathed back. He felt the hand on his chest contract: her nails pierced him. Then it was withdrawn. She had sat up.
 He is dead.  Narcissa Malfoy called to the watchers. And now they shouted  now they yelled in triumph and stamped their feet  and through his eyelids  Harry saw bursts of red
and silver light shoot into the air in celebration. Still feigning death on the ground  he understood. Narcissa knew that the only way she would be permitted to enter Hogwarts 
and find her son  was as part of the conquering army. She no longer cared whether Voldemort won.  You see.  screeched Voldemort over the tumult.  Harry Potter is dead by my hand  and no man alive can threaten me now. Watch. Crucio. 
Harry had been expecting it  knew his body would not be allowed to remain unsullied upon the forest floor; it must be subjected to humiliation to prove Voldemort's victory. He was lifted into the air  and it took all his determination to remain limp  yet the pain he
expected did not come. He was thrown once  twice  three times into the air. His glasses flew off and he felt his wand slide a little beneath his robes  but he kept himself floppy and lifeless  and when he fell no ground for the last time  the clearing echoed with jeers and shrieks of laughter.
 Now   said Voldemort   we go to the castle  and show them what has become of their hero. Who shall drag the body. No   Wait     There was a fresh outbreak of laughter  and after a few moments Harry felt the ground trembling beneath him.
 You carry him   Voldemort said.  He will be nice and visible in your arms  will he not. Pick up your little friend  Hagrid. And the glasses   put on the glasses   he must be recognizable    
Someone slammed Harry's glasses back onto his face with deliberate force  but the enormous hands that lifted him into the air were exceedingly gentle. Harry could feel Hagrid's arms trembling with the force of his heaving sobs; great tears splashed down upon him
as Hagrid cradled Harry in his arms  and Harry did not dare  by movement or word  to intimate to Hagrid that all was not  yet  lost.  Move   said Voldemort  and Hagrid stumbled forward  forcing his way through the close growing trees  back through the forest.
Branches caught at Harry's hair and robes  but he lay quiescent  his mouth lolling open  his eyes shut  and in the darkness  while the Death Eaters croed all around them  and while Hagrid sobbed blindly  nobody looked to see whether a pulse beat in the exposed neck of Harry Potter. . . .
The two giants crashed along behind the Death Eaters; Harry could hear trees creaking and falling as they passed; they made so much din that birds toes shrieking into the sky  and even the jeers of the Death Eaters were drowned. The victorious procession marched
on toward the open ground  and after a while Harry could tell  by the lightening of the darkness through his closed eyelids  that the trees were beginning to thin.  BANE.  Hagrid's unexpected bellow nearly forced Harry's eyes open.  Happy now  are yeh  that yeh didn't fight  yeh cowardly bunch o' nags.
Are yeh happy Harry Potter's   d dead . . . .  Hagrid could not continue  but broke down in fresh tears. Harry wondered how many centaurs were watching their procession pass;
he dared not open his eyes to look. Some of the Death Eaters called insults at the centaurs as they left them behind. A little later  Harry sensed  by a freshening of the air  that they had reached the edge of the forest.  Stop. 
Harry thought that Hagrid must have been forced to obey Voldemort's command  because he lurched a little. And now a chill settled over them where they sood  and Harry heard the rasping breath of the dementors that patrolled the other trees. They would not affect him now.
The fact of his own survival burned inside him  a talisman against them  as though his father's stag kept guardian in his heart. Someone passed close by Harry  and he knew that it was Voldemort himself because he spoke a moment later  his voice magically
magnified so that it swelled through the ground  crashing upon Harry's eardrums.  Harry Potter is dead. He was killed as he ran away  trying to save himself while you lay down your lives for him. We bring you his
body as proof that your hero is gone.  The battle is won. You have lost half of your fighters. My Death Eaters outnumber you  and the Boy Who Lived is finished. There must
be no more war. Anyone who continues to resist  man  woman or child  will be slaughtered  as will every member of their family. Come out of the castle now  kneel before me  and you shall be spared. Your parents and children  your brothers and sisters will live and be forgiven  and you will
join me in the new world we shall build togheter.  There was silence in the grounds and from the castle. Voldemort was so close to him that Harry did not dare open his eyes again.
 Come   said Voldemort  and Harry heard him move ahead  and Hagrid was forced to follow. Now Harry opened his eyes a fraction  and saw Voldemort striding in front them  wearing the great snake Nagini around his shoulders  now free of her enchanted cage. But Harry had no possibility
of extracting the wand concealed under his robes without being noticed by the Death Eaters  who marched on the either side of them through the slowly lightening darkness . . . .
 Harry   sobbed Hagrid.  Oh  Harry . . . Harry . . .  Harry shut his eyes tight again. He knew that they were approaching the castle and strained his ears to distinguish  above the gleeful voices
of the Death Eaters and their tramping footsteps  signs of life from those within.  Stop.  The Death Eaters camte to a halt; Harry heard them spreading out in a line facing the opne front doors of the school. He could see  even
though his closed lids  the teddish glow that meant light streamed upon him from the entrance hall. He waited. Any moment  the people for whom he had tried to die would see him  lying apparently dead  in Hagrid's arms.  NO. 
The scream was the more terrible because he had never expected or dreamed that Professor McGonagall could make such a sound. He heard another women laughing nearby  and knew that Bellatrix gloried in McGonagall's despair. He squinted again for a single second and saw the open
doorway filling with people  as the survivors of the battle came out onto the front steps to face their vanquishers and see the truth of Harry's death for themselves. He saw Voldemort standing a little in front of him  stroking Nagini's head with a single white finger. He closed his eyes again.  No.   No.   Harry. HARRY. 
Ron's  Hermione's  and Ginny's voices were worse than McGonagall's; Harry wanted nothing more than to call back  yet he made himself lie silent  and their cries acted like a trigger; the crowd of survivors took up the cause  screaming and yelling abuse at the Death Eathers  until  
 SILENCE.  cried Voldemort  and there was a bang and a flash of bright light  and silence was forced upn them all.  It is over. Set him down  Hagrid  at my feet  where he belongs.  Harry felt himself lowered onto the grass.
 You see. said Voldemort  and Harry felt him striding backward and forward right beside the place where he lay.  Harry Potter is dead. Do you understand now  deluded ones. He was nothing  ever  but a boy who relied on others to sacrifice themselves for him. 
 He beat you.  yelled Ron  and the charm broke  and the defenders of Hogwarts were shouting and screaming again until a second  more powerful bang extinguished their voices once more.
 He was killed while trying to sneak out of the castle grounds   said Voldemort  and there was a relish in his voice for the lie.  killed while trying to save himself    
But Voldemort broke off: Harry heard a scuffle and a shout  then another bang  a flash of light  and grunt of pain; he opened his eyes an infinitesimal amount. Someone had broken free of the crowd and charged at Voldemort: Harry saw the figure hit the ground. Disarmed  Voldemort throwing the challenger's wand aside and laughing.
 And who is this.  he said in his soft snake's hiss.  Who has volunteered to demonstrate what happens to those who continue to fight when the battle is lost.  Bellatrix gave a delighted laugh.
 It is Neville Longbottom  my Lord. The boy who has been giving the Carrows so much trouble. The son of the Aurors  remember.   Ah  yes  I remember   said Voldemort  looking down at Neville  who was struggling back to his feet  unarmed and unproctected  standing in the
no man's land between the survivors and the Death Eaters.  But you are a pureblood  aren't you  my brave boy. Voldemort asked Neville  who stood facing him  his empty hands curled in fists.
 So what if I am.  said Neville loudly.  You show spirit and bravery  and you come of noble stock. You will make a very valuable Death Eater. We need your kind  Neville Longbottom. 
 I'll join you when hell freezes over   said Neville.  Dumbledore's Army.  he shouted  and there was an answering cheer from the crowd  whom Voldemort's Silencing Charms seemed unable to hold.
 Very well   said Voldemort  and Harry heard more danger in the silkiness of his voice than in the most powerful curse.  If that is your choice  Longbottom  we revert to the original plan. On your head   he said quietly   be it. 
Still watching through his lashes  Harry saw Voldemort wave his wand. Seconds later  out of one of the castle's shattered windows  something that looked like a misshapen bird flew through the half light and landed in Voldemort's hand. He shook the mildewed object by its pointed end and it dangled  emtpy and ragged: the Sorting Hat.
 There will be no more Sorting at Hogwarts School   said Voldemort.  There will be no more Houses. The emblem  sheild and colors of my noble ancestor  Salazar Slythering  will suffice everyone. Won't they  Neville Longbottom. 
He pointed his wand at Neville  who grew rigid and still  then forced the hat onto Neville's head  so thta it slipped down below his eyes. There were movements from the watching crowd in front of the castle  and as one  the Death Eaters raised their wands  holding the fighters of Hogwarts at bay.
 Neville here is now going to demonstrate what happens to anyone foolish enough to continue to oppose me   said Voldemort  and with a flick of his wand  he caused the Sorting Hat to burst into flames.
Screams split the dawn  and Neville was a flame  rooted to the spot  unable to move  and Harry could not bear it: He must act   And then many things happened at the same moment.
They heard uproar from the distant boundary of the school as what sounded like hundreds of people came swarming over the out of sight walls and pelted toward the castle  uttering lowd war cries. At the same time  Grawp came lumbering around the side of the castel and yelled   HAGGER.  His cry was answered by roars from Voldemort's giants: They ran at Grawp like bull elephants making the earth quake. Then came hooves and the twangs of bows  and arrows were suddenly falling amongst the Death Eaters  who broke ranks  shouting their surprise. Harry pulled the Invisibilty Cloak from inside his robes  swunt it over himself  and sprang to his feet  as Neville moved too.
In one swift  fluid motin  Neville broke free of the Body Bind Curse upon him; the flaming har fell off him and he drew from its depths something silver  with a glittering  rubied handle  
The slash of the silver blade could not be heard over the roar of the oncoming crowd or the sounds of the clashing giants or of te stampending centaurs  and yet  it seemd to draw every eye. With a single stroke Neville sliced off the great snake's head  which spun high into the air  gleaming in the light flooding from the entrance hall  and Voldemort's mouth was open in a scream of fury that nobody could hear  and the snake's body thudded to the ground at his feet 
Hidden beneath the Invisibilty Cloak  Harry cast a Shield Charm between Neville and Voldemort before the latter could raise his stamps of the battling giants  Hagrid's yell came loudets of all.  HARRY.  Hagrid shouted.  HARRY   WHERE'S HARRY. 
Chaos reigned. The charging centaurs were scattering the Death Eaters  everyone was feeling the giants' stamping feet  and nearer and nearar thundered the reinforcements that had come from who knew where; Harry saw great winget creatues soaring the heads of Voldemort's giants  thestrals and Buckbeak the hippogriff scratching at their eyes while Grawp punched and pummeled them and now the wizards  defenders of Hogwarts and Death Eaters alike were being forced back into the castle. Harry was shooting jinxes and curses at any Death Eater he could see  and they crumpled  not knowing what or who had hit them  and their bodies were trampled by the retreating crowd. Still hidden beneath the Invisibility Cloak  Harry was buffered into the entrance hall: He was searching for Voldemort and saw him across the room  firing spells from his wand as he backed into the Great Hall  still screaming instructions to his followers as he sent curses flying left and right; Harry cast more Shield Charms  and Voldemort's would be victims. Seamus Finnigan and Hannah Abbott  datted past him into the Great Hall  where they joined the fight already flourishing inside it.
And now there were more  even more people storming up the front steps  and Harry saw Charlie Weasly overtaking Horace Slughorn  who was still wearing his emeral pijamas. They seemed to have returned at the head of what looked like the families and friends of every Hogwarts student who had remained to fight along with the shopkeeps and homeowners of Hogsmeade. The centaurs Bane  Ronan and Magorian burst into the hall with a great clatter of hooves  as behind Harry the door that led to the kitchens was blasted off its hinges.
The house elves of Hogwarts swarmed intot he entrance hall  screaming and waving carving knives and cleaver  and at their head  the locker of Regulus Black bouncing on his chest  was Kreacher  his bullfrog's voice audible even above this din:  Fight. Fight. Fight for my Master  defender of house elves. Fight the Dark Lord  in the name of brave Regulus. Fight. 
They were hacking and stabbing at the ankles and shim of Death Eaters their tiny faces alive with malice  and everywhere Harry looked Death Eaters were folding under sheer weight of numbers  overcome by spells  dragging arrows from wounds  stabbed in the leg by elves  or else simply attempting to escape  but swallowed by the oncoming horde. But it was not over yet: Harry sped between duelers  past atruggling prosoners  and into he Great Hall.
Voldemort was in the center of the battle  and he was striking and smiting al within reach. Harry could not get a clear shot  but fought his way nearer  still invisible  and the Great Hall became more and more crowded as everyone who could walk forced their way inside.
Harry saw Yaxley slammed tot he floor by George and Lee Jordan  saw Dolohov fall with a scream at Flitwick's hands  saw Walden Macnair thrown across the room by Hagrid  hit the stone wall opposite  and slide unconscious to the ground. He saw Ron and
Neville bringing down Fenrir Greyback. Aberforth Stunning Rookwood  Arthur and Percy flooting Thicknesse  and Lucius and Narcissa Malfoy running through the crowd  not even attempting to fight  screaming for their son.
Voldemort was now dueling McGonagall  Slughorn  Kingsley all at once  and there was a cold hatred in his face as they wove and ducked around him  unable to finish him  
Bellatrix was still fighing too  fifty yards away from Voldemort  and like her master she dueled three at once: Hermione  Ginny and Luna  all battling their hardest  but Bellatrix was equal to them  and Harry's attention was diverted as a Killing Curse shot so close to Ginny that she missed death by an inch   He changed course  running at Bellatrix rather than Voldemort  but before he had gone a few steps he was knocked sideways.
 NOT MY DAUGHTER  YOU BITCH.  Mrs. Weasley threw off her cloak as she ran  freeing her arms  Bellatrix spun on the spot  roaring with laughter at the sight of the new challenger.
 OUT OF MY WAY.  shouted Mrs. Weasley to the three girls  and with a simple swipe of her wand she began to duel. Harry watched with terror and elation as Molly Weasley's wand slashed and twisted  and Bellatrix Lestrange's smile faltered and became a snarl. Jets of light flew from both wands  the floor around the withces' feet became bot and cracked; both woman were fighting to kill.  No.  Mrs. Weasley cried as a few students ran forward  trying to come to her aid.  Get back. Get back. She is mine. 
Hundreds of people now lined the walls  watching the two fights  Voldemort and his three opponents  Bellatrix and Molly  and Harry stood  invisible  torn between both  wanting to attack and yet to protect  unable to be sure that he would not hit the innocent.
 What will happen to your children when I've killed you.  taunted Bellatrix  as mad as her master  capering as Molly's curses danced around her.  When Mummy's gone the same way as Freddie.   You   will   never   touch   our   children   again.  screamed Mrs. Weasley.
Bellatrix laughed the same exhilarated laugh her cousin Sirius had given as he toppled backward through the veil  and suddenly Harry knew what was going to happen before it did. Molly's curse soared beneath Bellatrix's constreched arm and hit her squarely in the chest  directly over her heart.
Bellatrix's glounting smile froze  her eyes seemd to bulge: For the tiniest space of time she knew what had happened  and then she toppled  and the watching crowd roared  and Voldemord screamed.
Harry felt as though he turned into slow motin: he saw McGonagall  Kingsley and Slughorn blasted backward  flailing and writhing through the air  as Voldemort's fury at the fall of his last  best leutenant exploded with the force of a bomb  Voldemort raised his wand and directed it at Molly Weasley.
 Protego.  roared Harry  and the Shield Charm expanded in the middle of the Hall  and Voldemort stared around for the source as Harry pulled off the Invisibility Cloak at last.
The yell of shock  the cheers  the screams on every side of : Harry.   HE'S ALIVE.  were stifled at once. The crowd was afraid  and silence fell abruptly and completely as Voldemort and Harry looked at each other  and began  at the same moment  to circle each other.
 I don't want anyone else to help   Harry said loudly  and in the total silence his voice carried like a trumpet call.  It's got to be like this. It's got to be me. 
Voldemort hissed.  Potter doesn't mean that   he said  his red eyes wide.  This isn't how he works  is it. Who are you going to use as a shield today  Potter. 
 Nobody   said Harry simply.  There are no more Horcruxes. It's just you and me. Neither can live while the other survives  and one of us is about to leave for good. . . . 
 One of us.  jeered Voldemort  and his wholy body was taut and his red eyes stared  a snake that was about to strike.  You think it will be you  do you  the boy who has survived by accident  and because Dumbledore was pulling the strings. 
 Accident  was it  when my mother died to save me.  asked Harry. They were still moving sideways  both of them  in that perfect circle  maintaining the same distance from each other  and for Harry no face existed but Voldemort's.  Accident  when I decided to fight in that graveyard. Accident  that I didn't defend myself tonight  and still survived  and returned to fight again. 
 Accidents.  screamed Voldemort  but still he did not strike  and the watching crowd was frozen as if Petrified  and of the hundreds in the Hall  nobody seemed to breathe but they two.  Accident and chance and the fact that you crouched and sniveled behind the skirts of greater men and women  and permitted me to kill them for you. 
 You won't be killing anyone else tonight   said Harry as they circled  and stared into each other's eyes  green into red.  You won't be able to kill any of them ever again. Don't you get it. I was ready to die to stop you from hurting these people      But you did not. 
    I meant to  and that's what did it. I've done what my mother did. They're protected from you. Haven't you noticed how none of the spells you put on them are binding. You can't torture them. You can't touch them. You don't learn from your mistakes  Riddle  do you.   You dare   
 Yes  I dare   said Harry.  I know things you don't know  Tom Riddle. I know lots of important things that you don't. Want to hear some  before you make another big mistake. 
Voldemort did not speak  but powled in a circle  and Harry knew that he kept him temporarily mesmerized at bay  held back by the faintest possibility that Harry might indeed know a final secret. . . .
 Is it love again.  said Voldemort  his snake's face jeering.  Dumbledore favorite solution  love  which he claimed conqered death  though love did not stop him falling from the tower and breaking like and old waxwork. Love  which did not prevent me stamping out your Modblood mother like a cockroack  Potter   and nobody seems to love you enough to run forward this time and take my curse. So what will stop you dying now when I strike.   Just one thing   said Harry  and still they circled each other  wrapped in each other  held apart by nothing but the last secret.
 If it is not love that will save you this time   said Voldemort   you must believe that you have magic that i do not  or else a weapon more powerful than mine. 
 I believe both   said Harry  and he saw shock flit across the snakelike face  though it was instantly dispelled; Voldemort began to laugh  and the sound was more frightening than his screams; humorles and insane  it echoed around the silent Hall.
 You think you know more magic than I do.  he said.  Than I  than Lord Voldemort  who has performed magic that Dumbledore himself never dreamed of.   Oh he dreamed of it   said Harry   but he knew more than you  knew enough not to do what you've done. 
 You mean he was weak.  screamed Voldemort.  Too weak to dare  too weak to take what might have been his  what will be mine.   No  he was cleverer than you   said Harry   a better wizard  a better man.   I brought about the death of Albus Dumbledore. 
 You thought you did   said Harry   but you were wrong.  For the frist time  the watching crowd stirred as the hundreds of people around the walls drew breath as one.
 Dumbledore is dead.  Voldemort hurled the words at Harry as in the marble tomb in the grounds of this castle  I have seen it  Potter  and he will not return. 
 Yes  Dumbledore is dead   said Harry calmly   but you didn't have him killed. He chose his own manner of dying  chose it months before he died  arranged the whole thing with the man you thought was your servant.   What chldish dream is this.  said Voldemort  but still he did not strike  and his red eyes did not waver from Harry's.
 Severus Snape wasn't yours   said Harry.  Snape was Dumbledore's. Dumbledore's from the moment you starting hunting down my mother. And you never realized it  because of the thing you can't understand. You never saw Snape cast a Patronus  did you  Riddle.  Voldemort did not answer. They continued to circle each other like wolves about to tear each other apart.
 Snape's Patronus was a doe   said Harry   the same as my mother's  because he loved her for nearly all of his life  from the time when they were children. You should have realized   he said as he saw Voldemort's nostrils flare   he asked you to spare her life  didn't he.   He desired her  that was all   sneered Voldemort   but when she had gone  he agreed that there were other women  and of purer blood  worhier of him    
 Of course he told you that   said Harry   but he was Dumbledore's spy from the moment you threatened her  and he's been working against you ever since. Dumbledore was already dying when Snape finished him. 
 It matters not.  shrieked Voldemort  who had followed every word with rapt attention  but now let out a cackle of mad laughter.  It matters not whether Snape was mine or Dumbledore's  or what petty obstacles they tried to put in my path. I crushed them as I crushed your mother  Snape's supposed great love. Oh  but it all makes sense  Potter  and in ways that you do not understand.
 Dumbledore was trying to keep the Elder Wand from me. He intended that Snape should be the true master of the wand. But I got there ahead of you  little boy   I reached the wand before you could get your hands on it  I understood the truth before you caught up. I killed Severus Snape three hours ago  and the Elder Wand  the Deathstick  the Wand of Destiny is truly mine. Dumbledore's last plan went wrong  Harry Potter. 
 Yeah  it did.  said Harry.  You're right. But before you try to kill me  I'd advise you think what you've done . . . . Think  and try for some remorse  Riddle. . . .   What is this. 
Of all the things that Harry had said to him  beyond any revelation or taunt  nothing had socked Voldemort like this. Harry saw is pupils contract to thin slits  saw the skin around his eyes whiten.
 It's your one last chance   said Harry   it's all you've got left. . . . I've seen what you'll be otherwise. . . . Be a man. . . try. . . Try for some remorse. . . .   You dare     .  said Voldemort again.
 Yes  I dare   said Harry   because Dumbledore's last plan hasn't backfired on me at all. It's backfired on you  Riddle.  Voldemort's hand was trembling on the Elder Wand  and Harry gripped Draco's very tightly. The moment  he knew  was seconds away.
 That wand still isn't working properly for you because you murdered the wrong person. Severus Snape was never the true master of the Elder Wand. He never defeated Dumbledore.   He killed      
 Aren't you listening. Snape never beat Dumbledore. Dumbledore's death was planned between them. Dumbledore instended to die  undefeated  the wand's last true master. If all had gone as planned  the wand's power would have died with him  because it had never been won from him. 
 But then  Potter  Dumbledore as good as gave me the wand.  Voldemort's voice shook with malicious pleasure.  I stole the wand from its last master's tomb. I removed it against the last master's wishes. Its power is mine. 
 You still don't get it  Riddle  do you. Possessing the wand isn't enough. Holding it  using it  doesn't make it really yours. Didn't you listen to Ollivander. The wand chooses the wizard . . . The Elder Wand recognized a new master before Dumbledore died  someone who never even laid a hand on it. The new master removed the wand from Dumbledore against his will  never realizing exactly what he had done  or that the world's most dangerous wand had given him its allegiance . . . 
Voldemort's chest rose and fell rapidly  and Harry could feel the curse coming  feel it building inside the wand pointed at his face.  The true master of the Elder Wand was Draco Malfoy.  Blank shock showed in Voldemort's face for a moment  but then it was gone.
 But what does it matter.  he said softly.  Even if you are right  Potter  it makes no difference to you and me. You no longer have the phoenix wand: We duel on skill alone . . . and after I have killed you  I can attend to Draco Malfoy . . . 
 But you're too late   said Harry.  You've missed your chance. I got there first. I overpowered Draco weeks ago. I took his wand from him.  Harry twitched the hawthorn wand  and he felt the eyes of everyone in the Hall upon it.
 So it all comes down to this  doesn't it.  whispered Harry.  Does the wand in your hand know its last master was Disarmed. Because if it does . . . I am the true master of the Elder Wand. 
A red glow burst suddenly across the enchanted sky above them as an edge of dazzling sun appeared over the sill of the nearest window. The light hit both of their faces
at the same time  so that Voldemort's was suddenly a flaming blur. Harry heard the high voice shriek as he too yelled his best hope to the heavens  pointing Draco's wand:  Avada Kedavra.   Expelliarmus. 
The bang was like a cannon blast  and the golden flames that erupted between them  at the dead center of the circle they had been treading  marked the point where the spells collided. Harry saw Voldemort's green jet meet his own spell  saw the Elder Wand fly high  dark against the sunrise  spinning across the enchanted ceiling like the head of Nagini  spinning through the air toward the master it would not kill  who had come to take full possession of it at last. And Harry  with the unerring skill of the Seeker  caught the wand in his free hand as Voldemort fell backward  arms splayed  the slit pupils of the scarlet eyes rolling upward. Tom Riddle hit the floor with a mundane finality  his body feeble and shrunken  the white hands empty  the snakelike face vacant and unknowing. Voldemort was dead  killed by his own rebounding curse  and Harry stood with two wands in his hand  staring down at his enemy's shell.
One shivering second of silence  the shock of the moment suspended: and then the tumult broke around Harry as the screams and the cheers and the roars of the watchers rent the air. The fierce new sun dazzled the windows as they thundered toward him  and the first to reach him were Ron and Hermione  and it was their arms that were wrapped around him  their incomprehensible shouts that deafened him. The Ginny  Neville  and Luna were there  and then all the Weasleys and Hagrid  and Kingsley and McGonagall and Flitwick and Sprout  and Harry could not hear a word that anyone was shouting  not tell whose hands were seizing him  pulling him  trying to hug some part of him  hundreds of them pressing in  all of them determined to touch the Boy Who Lived  the reason it was over at last    
The sun rose steadily over Hogwarts  and the Great Hall blazed with life and light. Harry was an indispensible part of the mingled outpourings of jubilation and mourning  of grief and celebration. They wanted him there with them  their leader and symbol  their savior and their guide  and that he had not slept  that he craved the company of only a few of them  seemed to occur to no one. He must speak to the bereaved  clasp their hands  witness their tears  receive their thanks  hear the news now creeping in from every quarter as the morning drew on; that the Imperiused up and down the country had come back to themselves  that Death Eaters were fleeing or else being captured  that the innocent of Azkaban were being released at that very moment  and that Kingsley Shacklebolt had been named temporary Minister of Magic.
They moved Voldemort's body and laid it in a chamber off the Hall  away form the bodies of Fred  Tonks  Lupin  Colin Creevey  and fifty others who had died fighting him. McGonagall had replaced the House tables  not nobody was sitting according to House anymore: All were jumbled together  teachers and pupils  ghosts and parents  centaurs and house elves  and Firenze lay recovering in the corner  and Grawp peered in through a smashed window  and people were throwing food into his laughing mouth. After a while  exhausted and drained  Harry found himself sitting on a bench beside Luna.  I'd want some peace and quiet  if it were me   she said.  I'd love some   he replied.  I'll distract them all   she said.  Use your cloak. 
And before he could say a word  she had cried   Oooh  look  a Blibbering Humdinger.  and pointed out the window. Everyone who heard looked around  and Harry slid the Cloak up over himself  and got to his feet.
Now he could move through the Hall without interference. He spotted Ginny two tables away; she was sitting with her head on her mother's shoulder: There would be time to talk later  hours and days and maybe years in which to talk. He saw Neville  the sword of Gryffindor lying beside his plate as he ate  surrounded by a knot of fervent admirers. Along the aisle between the tables he walked  and he spotted the three Malfoys  huddled together as though unsure whether or not they were supposed to be there  but nobody was paying them any attention. Everywhere he looked  he saw families reunited  and finally  he saw the two whose company he craved most.  It's me   he muttered  crouching down between them.  Will you come with me. 
They stood up at once  and together he  Ron and Hermione left the Great Hall. Great chunks were missing from the marble staircase  part of the balustrade gone  and rubble and bloodstains occurred ever few steps as their climbed.
Somewhere in the distance they could hear Peeves zooming through the corridors singing a victory song of his own composition: We did it  we bashed them  wee Potter's the one 
And Voldy's gone moldy  so now let's have fun.  Really gives a feeling for the scope and tragedy of the thing  doesn't it.  said Ron  pushing open a door to let Harry and Hermione through.
Happiness would come  Harry though  but at the moment it was muffled by exhaustion  and the pain of losing Fred and Lupin and Tonks pierced him like a physical wound every few steps. Most of all he felt the most stupendous relief  and a longing to sleep. But first he owed an explanation to Ron and Hermione  who had stuck with him for so long  and who deserved the truth. Painstakingly he recounted what he had seem in the Pensieve and what had happened in the forest  and they had not even begun to express all their shock and amazement  when at last they arrived at the place to which they had been walking  though none of them had mentioned their destination.
Since he had last seen it  the gargoyle guarding the entrance to the headmaster's study had been knocked aside; it stood lopsided  looking a little punch drunk  and Harry wondered whether it would be able to distinguish passwords anymore.  Can we go up.  he asked the gargoyle.
 Feel free   groaned the statue. They clambered over him and onto the spiral stone staircase that moved slowly upward like an escalator. Harry pushed open the door at the top.
He had one  brief glimpse of the stone Pensieve on the desk where he had left it  and then an earsplitting noise made him cry out  thinking of curses and returning Death Eaters and the rebirth of Voldemort    
But it was applause. All around the walls  the headmasters and headmistresses of Hogwarts were giving him a standing ovation; they waved their hats and in some cases their wigs  they reached through their frames to grip each other's hands; they danced up and down on their chairs in which they have been painted: Dilys Derwent sobbed unashamedly; Dexter Fortescue was waving his ear trumpet; and Phineas Niggelus called  in his high  reedy voice   And let it be noted that Slytherin House played its part. Let our contribution not be forgotten. 
But Harry had eyes only for the man who stood in the largest portrait directly behind the headmaster's chair. Tears were sliding down from behind the half moon spectacles into the long silver beard  and the pride and the gratitude emanating from him filled Harry wit h the same balm as phoenix song.
At last  Harry held up his hands  and the portraits fell respectfully silent  beaming and mopping their eyes and waiting eagerly for him to speak. He directed his words at Dumbledore  however  and chose them with enormous care. Exhausted and bleary eyed though he was  he must make one last effort  seeking one last piece of advice.
 The thing that was hidden in the Snitch   he began   I dropped it in the forest. I don't exactly here  but I'm not going to go looking for it again. Do you agree. 
 My dear boy  I do   said Dumbledore  while his fellow pictures looked confused and curious.  A wise and courageous decision  but no less than I would have expected of you. Does anyone know else know where it fell. 
 No one   said Harry  and Dumbledore nodded his satisfaction.  I'm going to keep Ignotus's present  though   said Harry  and Dumbledore beamed.  But of course  Harry  it is yours forever  until you pass it on.   And then there's this. 
Harry held up the Elder Wand  and Ron and Hermione looked at it with a reverence that  even in his befuddled and sleep deprived state  Harry did not like to see.
 I don't want it.  said Harry.  What.  said Ron loudly.  Are you mental.   I know it's powerful   said Harry wearily.  But I was happier with mine. So . . . 
He rummaged in the pouch hung around his neck  and pulled out the two halves of holly tstill just connected by the finest threat of phoenix feather. Hermione had said that they could not be repaired  that the damage was too severe. All he knew was that if this did not work  nothing would. He laid the broken wand upon the headmaster's desk  touched it with the very tip of the Elder Wand  and said   Reparo. 
As his wand resealed  red sparks flew out of its end. Harry knew that he had succeeded. He picked up the holly and phoenix wand and felt a sudden warmth in his fingers  as though wand and hand were rejoicing at their reunion.
 I'm putting the Elder Wand   he told Dumbledore  who was watching him with enormous affection and admiration   back where it came from. It can stay there. If I die a natural death like Ignotus  its power will be broken  won't it. The previous master will never have been defeated. That'll be the end of it.
Dumbledore nodded. They smiled at each other.  Are you sure.  said Ron. There was the faintest trace of longing in his voice as he looked at the Elder Wand.  I think Harry's right   said Hermione quietly.
 That wand's more trouble than it's worth.  said Harry.  And quite honestly   he turned away from the painted portraits  thinking now only of the four poster bed lying waiting for him in Gryffindor Tower  and wondering whether Kreacher might bring him a sandwich there   I've had enough trouble for a lifetime.  Epilogue Nineteen Years Later
Autumn seemed to arrive suddenly that year. The morning of the first of September was crisp as an apple  and as the little family bobbed across the rumbling road toward the great sooty station  the fumes of car exhausts and the breath of pedestrians sparkled like cobwebs in the cold air. Two large cages tattled on top of the laden trolleys the parents were pushing; the owls inside them hooted indignantly  and the redheaded girl trailed fearfully behind here brothers  clutching her father's arm.  It won't be long  and you'll be going too   Harry told her.  Two years   sniffed Lily.  I want to go now. 
The commuters stared curiously at the owls as the family wove its way toward the barrier between platforms nine and ten  Albus's voice drifted back to Harry over the surrounding clamor; his sons had resumed the argument they had started in the car.  I won't. I won't be a Slytherin. 
 James  give it a rest.  said Ginny.  I only said he might be   said James  grinning at his younger brother.  There's nothing wrong with that. He might be in Slytherin 
But James caught his mother's eye and fell silent. The five Potters approached the barrier. With a slightly cocky look over his shoulder at his younger brother  James took the trolley from his mother and broke into a run. A moment later  he had vanished.
 You'll write to me  won't you.  Albus asked his parents immediately  capitalizing on the momentary absence of his brother.  Every day  of you want us to   said Ginny.  Not every day   said Albus quickly   James says most people only get letters from home about once a month. 
 We wrote to James three times a week last year   said Ginny.  And you don't want to believe everything he tells you about Hogwarts   Harry put in.  He likes a laugh  your brother. 
Side by side  they pushed the second trolley forward  gathering speed. As they reached the barrier  Albus winced  but no collision came. Instead  the family emerged onto platform nine and three quarters  which was obscured by thick white steam that was pouring from the scarlet Hogwarts Express. Indistinct figures were swarming through the mist  into which James had already disappeared.  Where are they.  asked Albus anxiously  peering at the hazy forms they passed as they made their way down the platform.  We'll find them   said Ginny reassuringly.
But the vapor was dense  and it was difficult to make out anybody's faces. Detached from their owners  voices sounded unnaturally loud  Harry thought he head Percy discoursing loudly on broomstick regulations  and was quite glad of the excuse not to stop and say hello. . . .  I think that's them  Al   said Ginny suddenly.
A group of four people emerged from the mist  standing alongside the very last carriage. Their faces only came into focus when Harry  Ginny  Lily  and Albus had drawn right up to them.  Hi   said Albus  sounding immensely relieved. Roses  who was already wearing her brand new Hogwarts robes  beamed at him.
 Parked all right  then.  Ron asked Harry.  I did. Hermione didn't believe I could pass a Muggle driving test  did you. She thought I'd have to Confound the examiner.   No  I didn't   said Hermione   I had complete faith in you. 
 As a matter of fact  I did Confund him   Ron whispered to Harry  as together they lifted Albus's trunk and owl onto the train.  I only forgot to look in the wing mirror  and let's face it  I can use a Supersensory Charm for that. 
Back on the platform  they found Lily and Hugo  Rose's younger brother  having an animated discussion about which House they would be sorted into when they finally went to Hogwarts.  If you're not in Gryffindor  we'll disinherit you   said Ron   but no pressure.   Ron.  Lily and Hugo laughed  but Albus and Rose looked solemn.
 He doesn't mean it   said Hermione and Ginny  but Ron was no longer paying attention. Catching Harry's eye  he nodded covertly to a point some fifty yards away. The steam had thinned for a moment  and three people stood in sharp relief against the shifting mist.  Look who it is. 
Draco Malfoy was standing there with his wife and son  a dark coat buttoned up to his throat. His hair was receding somewhat  which emphasized the pointed chin. The new boy resembled Draco as much as Albus resembled Harry. Draco caught sight of Harry  Ron  Hermione  and Ginny staring at him  nodded curtly  and turned away again.
 So that's little Scorpius   said Ron under his breath.  Make sure you beat him in every test  Rosie. Thank God you inherited your mother's brains.   Ron  for heaven's sake   said Hermione  half stern  half amused.  Don't try to turn them against each other before they've even started school. 
 You're right  sorry   said Ron  but unable to help himself  he added   Don't get too friendly with him  though  Rosie. Granddad Weasley would never forgive you if you married a pureblood.   Hey. 
James had reappeared; he had divested himself of his trunk  owl  and trolley  and was evidently bursting with news.  Teddy's back there   he said breathlessly  pointing back over his shoulder into the billowing clouds of steam.  Just seen him. And guess what he's doing. Snogging Victoire. 
He gazed up at the adults  evidently disappointed by the lack of reaction.  Our Teddy. Teddy Lupin. Snogging our Victoire. Our cousin. And I asked teddy what he was doing      You interrupted them.  said Ginny.  You are so like Ron    
    and he said he'd come to see her off. And then he told me to go away. He's snogging her.  James added as though worried he had not made himself clear.
 Oh  it would be lovely if they got married.  whispered Lily ecstatically.  Teddy would really be part of the family then.   He already comes round for dinner about four times a week   said Harry  Why don't we just invite him to live with is and have done with it. 
 Yeah.  said James enthusiastically.  I don't mind sharing with Al  Teddy could have my room.   No   said Harry firmly   you and Al will share a room only when I want the house demolished. 
He checked the battered old watch that had once been Fabian Prewett's.  It's nearly eleven  you'd better get on board.   Don't forget to give Neville our love.  Ginny told James as she hugged him.  Mum. I can't give a professor love. 
 But you know Neville    James rolled his eyes.  Outside  yeah  but at school he's Professor Longbottom  isn't he. I can't walk into Herbology and give him love. . . . 
Shaking his head at his mother's foolishness  he vented his feelings by aiming a kick at Albus.  See you later  Al. Watch out for the thestrals.   I thought they were invisible. You said they were invisible. 
but James merely laughed  permitted his mother to kiss him  gave his father a fleeting hug  then leapt onto the rapidly filling train. They saw him wave  then sprint away up the corridor to find his friends.
 Thestrals are nothing to worry about   Harry told Albus.  They're gentle things  there's nothing scare about them. Anyway  you won't be going up to school in the carriages  you'll be going in the boats.  Ginny kissed Albus good bye.  See you at Christmas. 
 Bye  Al   said Harry as his son hugged him.  Don't forget Hagrid's invited you to tea next Friday. Don't mess with Peeves. Don't duel anyone till you're learned how. And don't let James wind you up.   What if I'm in Slytherin. 
The whisper was for his father alone  and Harry knew that only the moment of departure could have forced Albus to reveal how great and sincere that fear was. Harry crouched down so that Albus's face was slightly above his own. Alone of Harry's three children  Albus had inherited Lily's eyes.
 Ablus Severus   Harry said quietly  so that nobody but Ginny could hear  and she was tactful enough to pretend to be waving to rose  who was now on the train   you were named for two headmasters of Hogwarts. One of them was a Slytherin and he was probably the bravest man I ever knew.   But just say   
   then Slytherin House will have gained an excellent student  won't it. It doesn't matter to us  Al. But if it matter to you  you'll be able to choose Gryffindor over Slytherin. The Sorting Hat takes your choice into account.   Really.   It did for me   said Harry.
He had never told any of his children that before  and he saw the wonder in Albus's face when he said it. But how the doorsr were slamming all along the scarlet train  and the blurred outlines of parents swarming forward for final kisses  last minute reminders  Albus jumped into the carriage and ginny closed the door behind him. Students were hanging from the windows nearest them. A great number of faces  both on the train and off  seemed to be turned toward Harry.
 Why are they all staring.  demanded Albus as he and rose craned around to look at the other students.  Don't let it worry you   said Ron.  It's me  I'm extremely famous. 
Albus  Rose  Hugo  and Lily laughed. The train began to more  and Harry walked alongside it  watching his son's thin face  already ablaze with excitement. Harry kept smiling and waving  even though it was like a little bereavement  watching his son glide away from him. . . . The last trace of steam evaporated in the autumn air. The train rounded a corner. Harry's hand was still raised in farewell.  He'll be alright   murmured Ginny.
As Harry looked dat her  he lowered his hand absentmindedly and touched the lightning scar on his forehead.  I know he will.  The scar had not pained Harry for nineteen years. All was well.